integrate/storage/php-cli-client.md, before:

---
title: Storage PHP CLI Client
permalink: /integrate/storage/php-cli-client/
---

* TOC
{:toc}

The Storage API PHP command line interface (CLI) client is a portable command line client which provides
a simple implementation of [Storage API](http://docs.keboola.apiary.io/). 
It runs on any platform which has PHP CLI installed.

Currently, the client implements 

- functions for exporting and importing tables; 
- functions for creating and deleting buckets; and additionally,
- the [project backup feature](https://help.keboola.com/management/project-export/).

The client source is available in our [Github repository](https://github.com/keboola/storage-api-cli).

## Installation
<a href='https://s3.amazonaws.com/keboola-storage-api-cli/builds/sapi-client.phar' download>Download the latest version</a>.

You may place the downloaded file anywhere that will make it easy for you to access
(such as `/usr/local/bin`). If you use *nix platform, you need to `chmod` the file
`chmod 755 composer.phar`. You may rename it to `sapi-client` to avoid having to type the .phar
extension every time.

Storage API CLI requires PHP 5.5 or newer.

- For PHP 5.4 use
<a href='https://s3.amazonaws.com/keboola-storage-api-cli/builds/sapi-client.0.2.9.phar' download>version 0.2.9</a>.
(5.4 version is no longer supported)
- For PHP 5.3 use
<a href='https://s3.amazonaws.com/keboola-storage-api-cli/builds/sapi-client.0.1.9.phar' download>version 0.1.9</a>.

## Running the Client
To print available commands (assuming that the current directory is the directory you installed the client to), run
{% highlight bash %}
php sapi-client.phar
{% endhighlight %}


### Example - Create a table
To create a new table in Storage, use the `create-table` command. Provide the name of an
existing bucket, the name of the new table and a CSV file with the table's contents.

To create the`new-table` table in the `in.c-main` bucket, use

{% highlight bash %}
php sapi-client.phar create-table in.c-main new-table new-table.csv --token=storage_token
{% endhighlight %}

The above command will import the contents of `new-table.csv` in the current directory into the newly
created table. You should see an output similar to this one:

    Authorized as: ondrej.popelka@keboola.com (Odinuv Sandbox)
    Bucket found ok
    Table create start
    Table create end
    Table id: in.c-main.new-table

### Example - Importing Data
If you want only to import new data into the table, use the `write-table` command and provide
the ID (*bucketName.tableName*) of an existing table.

To import data into the `new-table` table in the `in.c-main` bucket, use

{% highlight bash %}
php sapi-client.phar write-table in.c-main.new-table new-data.csv --token=storage_token --incremental
{% endhighlight %}

The above command will import the contents of the `new-data.csv` file into the existing table. If the
`--incremental` parameter is supplied, the table contents will be appended. If the parameter is not
supplied, the table contents will be overwritten. You should see an output similar to this one:

    Authorized as: ondrej.popelka@keboola.com (Tutorial)
    Table found ok
    Import start
    Import done in 17 secs.

    Results:
    transaction:
    warnings:
    importedColumns:
        - id
        - secondCol
    totalRowsCount: 8
    totalDataSizeBytes: 4096


### Example - Exporting Data
If you want to export a table from Storage, use the `export-table` command. Provide
the ID (*bucketName.tableName*) of an existing table.

To export data from the `old-table` table in `in.c-main` bucket, use

{% highlight bash %}
sapi-client export-table in.c-main.old-table old-data.csv --token=storage_token
{% endhighlight %}

The above command will export the table from Storage and save it as `old-data.csv` in
the current directory. You should see an output similar to this one:

    Authorized as: ondrej.popelka@keboola.com (Tutorial)
    Table found ok
    Export done in 17 secs.

Commit message:

fix: export never was supported, add client troubleshooting

integrate/storage/php-cli-client.md, after:

---
title: Storage PHP CLI Client
permalink: /integrate/storage/php-cli-client/
---

* TOC
{:toc}

The Storage API PHP command line interface (CLI) client is a portable command line client which provides
a simple implementation of [Storage API](http://docs.keboola.apiary.io/).
It runs on any platform which has PHP CLI installed.

Currently, the client implements

- functions for exporting and importing tables;
- functions for creating and deleting buckets; and additionally,
- the [project backup feature](https://help.keboola.com/management/project-export/).

The client source is available in our [Github repository](https://github.com/keboola/storage-api-cli).

## Installation
<a href='https://s3.amazonaws.com/keboola-storage-api-cli/builds/sapi-client.phar' download>Download the latest version</a>.

You may place the downloaded file anywhere that will make it easy for you to access
(such as `/usr/local/bin`). If you use *nix platform, you need to `chmod` the file
`chmod 755 composer.phar`. You may rename it to `sapi-client` to avoid having to type the .phar
extension every time.

Storage API CLI requires PHP 5.5 or newer.

- For PHP 5.4 use
<a href='https://s3.amazonaws.com/keboola-storage-api-cli/builds/sapi-client.0.2.9.phar' download>version 0.2.9</a>.
(5.4 version is no longer supported)
- For PHP 5.3 use
<a href='https://s3.amazonaws.com/keboola-storage-api-cli/builds/sapi-client.0.1.9.phar' download>version 0.1.9</a>.

## Running the Client
To print available commands (assuming that the current directory is the directory you installed the client to), run
{% highlight bash %}
php sapi-client.phar
{% endhighlight %}


### Example - Create a table
To create a new table in Storage, use the `create-table` command. Provide the name of an
existing bucket, the name of the new table and a CSV file with the table's contents.

To create the`new-table` table in the `in.c-main` bucket, use

{% highlight bash %}
php sapi-client.phar create-table in.c-main new-table new-table.csv --token=storage_token
{% endhighlight %}

The above command will import the contents of `new-table.csv` in the current directory into the newly
created table. You should see an output similar to this one:

    Authorized as: ondrej.popelka@keboola.com (Odinuv Sandbox)
    Bucket found ok
    Table create start
    Table create end
    Table id: in.c-main.new-table

### Example - Importing Data
If you want only to import new data into the table, use the `write-table` command and provide
the ID (*bucketName.tableName*) of an existing table.

To import data into the `new-table` table in the `in.c-main` bucket, use

{% highlight bash %}
php sapi-client.phar write-table in.c-main.new-table new-data.csv --token=storage_token --incremental
{% endhighlight %}

The above command will import the contents of the `new-data.csv` file into the existing table. If the
`--incremental` parameter is supplied, the table contents will be appended. If the parameter is not
supplied, the table contents will be overwritten. You should see an output similar to this one:

    Authorized as: ondrej.popelka@keboola.com (Tutorial)
    Table found ok
    Import start
    Import done in 17 secs.

    Results:
    transaction:
    warnings:
    importedColumns:
        - id
        - secondCol
    totalRowsCount: 8
    totalDataSizeBytes: 4096


### Example - Exporting Data
If you want to export a table from Storage, use the `export-table` command. Provide
the ID (*bucketName.tableName*) of an existing table.

To export data from the `old-table` table in `in.c-main` bucket, use

{% highlight bash %}
sapi-client export-table in.c-main.old-table old-data.csv --token=storage_token
{% endhighlight %}

The above command will export the table from Storage and save it as `old-data.csv` in
the current directory. You should see an output similar to this one:

    Authorized as: ondrej.popelka@keboola.com (Tutorial)
    Table found ok
    Export done in 17 secs.

## Troubleshooting
If the client does not seem to respond (hangs, prints no error or information message), make sure that your PHP installation can
communicate properly and securely. You can verify this by running e.g. the following command:

{% highlight bash %}
curl --request GET --header "X-StorageApi-Token:yourtoken" "https://connection.keboola.com/v2/storage/buckets"
{% endhighlight %}

This should print a JSON with list of buckets in project. If the command returns an error, you need to resolve that error first before
running Storage API client.
