extend/docker/tutorial/automated-build.md, before:

---
title: Automated Build
permalink: /extend/docker/tutorial/automated-build/
---

* TOC
{:toc}

An important part of the Docker ecosystem is a **Docker registry**. It acts as a folder of images, taking 
care of their storing and building.
[Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/) is the official Docker registry. 
There are also alternative registries, such as [Quay](https://quay.io/), or completely private registries 
such as [AWS ECR](https://aws.amazon.com/ecr/) where we are keen to host your images for you.

We support public and private images on both Docker Hub and Quay registries, as well as private images on AWS ECR. 
Other registries are not yet supported. 

For reliability reasons, we strongly recommend to use the [**AWS ECR**](#setting-up-a-repository-on-aws-ecr) 
provisioned by the **Keboola Developer Portal**.

## Working with a Registry
In order to run an image, **pull** (`docker pull`) that image to your machine. The `docker run` 
command does that automatically for you. So, when you do:

    docker run -i quay.io/keboola/base-php70
    
you will see something like this:

    Unable to find image 'quay.io/keboola/base-php70:latest' locally
    latest: Pulling from keboola/base-php70 
    a3ed95caeb02: Pull complete

When you build an image locally, **push** (`docker push`) it to the Docker registry. Then the
image can be shared with anyone (if public), or with your organization (if private). 

Because the image is defined only by the Dockerfile instructions (and optionally *build context*), you can take 
a shortcut and give the registry only the Dockerfile. The registry will then build the image on its own
infrastructure. This is best done by setting up an automated build which links a git repository 
containing the Dockerfile (and usually the application code) with the registry. 

## Setting up a Repository on Quay
This may get slightly confusing because we will create a new *Image Repository* and link
that to an existing *Github Repository*. Use the 
[sample repository](https://github.com/keboola/docs-docker-example-basic) 
created in our [tutorial](/extend/docker/tutorial/howto/).

Create an account and organization, and then *Create a New Repository*:

{: .image-popup}
![Create Repository](/extend/docker/tutorial/quay-intro.png)

In the repository configuration, select *Link to a Github Repository Push*: 

{: .image-popup}
![Repository configuration](/extend/docker/tutorial/quay-new-repository.png)

Then link the image repository to a Github repository
(you can use our [sample repository](https://github.com/keboola/docs-docker-example-basic)):

{: .image-popup} 
![Link repositories](/extend/docker/tutorial/quay-link-repository.png)

After that, configure the build trigger. The easiest way to do that is setting the trigger to `All Branches and Tags`. 
It will trigger an image rebuild on every commit to the repository. 
You can also set the build trigger only to a specific branch, for example, `heads/master`:

{: .image-popup}  
![Configure build trigger for branch](/extend/docker/tutorial/quay-build-trigger-master.png)

An alternative option is to configure the trigger to a specific tag. For Semantic versioning, 
the following regular expression `^tags/[0-9]+\.[0-9]+\.[0-9]+$` ensures the image is rebuilt only when you create a new tag.
 
{: .image-popup}
![Configure build trigger for tag](/extend/docker/tutorial/quay-build-trigger-tag.png)

Regardless of your chosen approach, finish setting up the trigger by completing the wizard:

{: .image-popup}
![Configure build trigger](/extend/docker/tutorial/quay-build-trigger.png)

Pushing a new commit into a git repository or creating a new tag (depending on the trigger setting) will now
trigger a new build of the Docker Image. Also note that the image automatically inherits the git repository tag 
or branch name. So, when you push a commit to the `master` branch, you will get an image with a tag master (which will
move away from any older image builds). When creating a `1.0.0` tag, you will get an image with a `1.0.0` tag.

## Setting up a Repository on AWS ECR

If you do not have a Keboola Developer Portal account yet, head to the [API documentation](http://docs.kebooladeveloperportal.apiary.io/#),
create a new account and register your vendor. 
 
The [Get credentials to ECR repository API call](http://docs.kebooladeveloperportal.apiary.io/#reference/0/apps/get-credentials-to-ecr-repository)
will create a repository and temporary credentials to log into AWS ECR registry and to upload your Docker image. 

If you want to integrate this process in a CI tool like Travis or CircleCI, do not use your Keboola Developer Portal 
 credentials to log in. For this case the [Generate credentials for a service account API call](http://docs.kebooladeveloperportal.apiary.io/#reference/0/vendors/generate-credentials-for-service-account)
 will create a service user whose credentials are safe to share with Travis or the CI tool of your choice.
 
### Sample Integration with Travis CI
 
Generate the service username and password using [Generate credentials for service account API call](http://docs.kebooladeveloperportal.apiary.io/#reference/0/vendors/generate-credentials-for-service-account) 
and save these to environment variables:

 - `KBC_DEVELOPERPORTAL_USERNAME` with the login
 - `KBC_DEVELOPERPORTAL_PASSWORD` with the password
 - `KBC_DEVELOPERPORTAL_URL` with the string `https://apps.keboola.com`
 
{: .image-popup}
![Environment variables in Travis CI](/extend/docker/tutorial/travis-envs.png)

Then simply paste this code in your deploy script:

{% highlight bash %}
docker pull quay.io/keboola/developer-portal-cli-v2:latest
export REPOSITORY=`docker run --rm -e KBC_DEVELOPERPORTAL_USERNAME=$KBC_DEVELOPERPORTAL_USERNAME -e KBC_DEVELOPERPORTAL_PASSWORD=$KBC_DEVELOPERPORTAL_PASSWORD -e KBC_DEVELOPERPORTAL_URL=$KBC_DEVELOPERPORTAL_URL quay.io/keboola/developer-portal-cli-v2:latest ecr:get-repository keboola docker-demo`
docker tag keboola/docker-demo-app:latest $REPOSITORY:$TRAVIS_TAG
docker tag keboola/docker-demo-app:latest $REPOSITORY:latest
eval $(docker run --rm -e KBC_DEVELOPERPORTAL_USERNAME=$KBC_DEVELOPERPORTAL_USERNAME -e KBC_DEVELOPERPORTAL_PASSWORD=$KBC_DEVELOPERPORTAL_PASSWORD -e KBC_DEVELOPERPORTAL_URL=$KBC_DEVELOPERPORTAL_URL quay.io/keboola/developer-portal-cli-v2:latest ecr:get-login keboola docker-demo)
docker push $REPOSITORY:$TRAVIS_TAG
docker push $REPOSITORY:latest
{% endhighlight %}

This code will tag your image with relevant tags (`latest` and the tag of the build) and push them to our registry. 

You can see both [`.travis.yml`](https://github.com/keboola/docker-demo-app/blob/master/.travis.yml) and the deploy script ([`deploy.sh`](https://github.com/keboola/docker-demo-app/blob/master/deploy.sh)) 
in our [Docker Demo App](https://github.com/keboola/docker-demo-app) GitHub repository.

Please note that pushing the image to the registry does not update the tag in your KBC application definition. You have 
to manually update the application definition using the [Keboola Developer Portal API](http://docs.kebooladeveloperportal.apiary.io/).

This sample deployment script uses the [Developer Portal CLI](https://github.com/keboola/developer-portal-cli-v2) tool. 
The CLI (delivered as a Docker image) provides the deploy script with simple commands to retrieve the repository 
and credentials to our AWS ECR registry. The `ecr:get-repository` command returns the repository associated with user in
`KBC_DEVELOPERPORTAL_USERNAME` variable. The `ecr:get-login` command returns a `docker login ...` command to authenticate
to that repository.

Commit message:

automated build - deploy app into KBC

extend/docker/tutorial/automated-build.md, after:

---
title: Automated Build
permalink: /extend/docker/tutorial/automated-build/
---

* TOC
{:toc}

An important part of the Docker ecosystem is a **Docker registry**. It acts as a folder of images, taking 
care of their storing and building.
[Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/) is the official Docker registry. 
There are also alternative registries, such as [Quay](https://quay.io/), or completely private registries 
such as [AWS ECR](https://aws.amazon.com/ecr/) where we are keen to host your images for you.

We support public and private images on both Docker Hub and Quay registries, as well as private images on AWS ECR. 
Other registries are not yet supported. 

For reliability reasons, we strongly recommend to use the [**AWS ECR**](#setting-up-a-repository-on-aws-ecr) 
provisioned by the **Keboola Developer Portal**.

## Working with a Registry
In order to run an image, **pull** (`docker pull`) that image to your machine. The `docker run` 
command does that automatically for you. So, when you do:

    docker run -i quay.io/keboola/base-php70
    
you will see something like this:

    Unable to find image 'quay.io/keboola/base-php70:latest' locally
    latest: Pulling from keboola/base-php70 
    a3ed95caeb02: Pull complete

When you build an image locally, **push** (`docker push`) it to the Docker registry. Then the
image can be shared with anyone (if public), or with your organization (if private). 

Because the image is defined only by the Dockerfile instructions (and optionally *build context*), you can take 
a shortcut and give the registry only the Dockerfile. The registry will then build the image on its own
infrastructure. This is best done by setting up an automated build which links a git repository 
containing the Dockerfile (and usually the application code) with the registry. 

## Setting up a Repository on Quay
This may get slightly confusing because we will create a new *Image Repository* and link
that to an existing *Github Repository*. Use the 
[sample repository](https://github.com/keboola/docs-docker-example-basic) 
created in our [tutorial](/extend/docker/tutorial/howto/).

Create an account and organization, and then *Create a New Repository*:

{: .image-popup}
![Create Repository](/extend/docker/tutorial/quay-intro.png)

In the repository configuration, select *Link to a Github Repository Push*: 

{: .image-popup}
![Repository configuration](/extend/docker/tutorial/quay-new-repository.png)

Then link the image repository to a Github repository
(you can use our [sample repository](https://github.com/keboola/docs-docker-example-basic)):

{: .image-popup} 
![Link repositories](/extend/docker/tutorial/quay-link-repository.png)

After that, configure the build trigger. The easiest way to do that is setting the trigger to `All Branches and Tags`. 
It will trigger an image rebuild on every commit to the repository. 
You can also set the build trigger only to a specific branch, for example, `heads/master`:

{: .image-popup}  
![Configure build trigger for branch](/extend/docker/tutorial/quay-build-trigger-master.png)

An alternative option is to configure the trigger to a specific tag. For Semantic versioning, 
the following regular expression `^tags/[0-9]+\.[0-9]+\.[0-9]+$` ensures the image is rebuilt only when you create a new tag.
 
{: .image-popup}
![Configure build trigger for tag](/extend/docker/tutorial/quay-build-trigger-tag.png)

Regardless of your chosen approach, finish setting up the trigger by completing the wizard:

{: .image-popup}
![Configure build trigger](/extend/docker/tutorial/quay-build-trigger.png)

Pushing a new commit into a git repository or creating a new tag (depending on the trigger setting) will now
trigger a new build of the Docker Image. Also note that the image automatically inherits the git repository tag 
or branch name. So, when you push a commit to the `master` branch, you will get an image with a tag master (which will
move away from any older image builds). When creating a `1.0.0` tag, you will get an image with a `1.0.0` tag.

## Setting up a Repository on AWS ECR

If you do not have a Keboola Developer Portal account yet, head to the [API documentation](http://docs.kebooladeveloperportal.apiary.io/#),
create a new account and register your vendor. 
 
The [Get credentials to ECR repository API call](http://docs.kebooladeveloperportal.apiary.io/#reference/0/apps/get-credentials-to-ecr-repository)
will create a repository and temporary credentials to log into AWS ECR registry and to upload your Docker image. 

If you want to integrate this process in a CI tool like Travis or CircleCI, do not use your Keboola Developer Portal 
 credentials to log in. For this case the [Generate credentials for a service account API call](http://docs.kebooladeveloperportal.apiary.io/#reference/0/vendors/generate-credentials-for-service-account)
 will create a service user whose credentials are safe to share with Travis or the CI tool of your choice.
 
### Sample Integration with Travis CI
 
Generate the service username and password using [Generate credentials for service account API call](http://docs.kebooladeveloperportal.apiary.io/#reference/0/vendors/generate-credentials-for-service-account) 
and save these to environment variables:

 - `KBC_DEVELOPERPORTAL_USERNAME` with the login
 - `KBC_DEVELOPERPORTAL_PASSWORD` with the password
 - `KBC_DEVELOPERPORTAL_URL` with the string `https://apps.keboola.com`
 
{: .image-popup}
![Environment variables in Travis CI](/extend/docker/tutorial/travis-envs.png)

Then simply paste this code in your deploy script:

{% highlight bash %}
docker pull quay.io/keboola/developer-portal-cli-v2:latest
export REPOSITORY=`docker run --rm -e KBC_DEVELOPERPORTAL_USERNAME=$KBC_DEVELOPERPORTAL_USERNAME -e KBC_DEVELOPERPORTAL_PASSWORD=$KBC_DEVELOPERPORTAL_PASSWORD -e KBC_DEVELOPERPORTAL_URL=$KBC_DEVELOPERPORTAL_URL quay.io/keboola/developer-portal-cli-v2:latest ecr:get-repository keboola docker-demo`
docker tag keboola/docker-demo-app:latest $REPOSITORY:$TRAVIS_TAG
docker tag keboola/docker-demo-app:latest $REPOSITORY:latest
eval $(docker run --rm -e KBC_DEVELOPERPORTAL_USERNAME=$KBC_DEVELOPERPORTAL_USERNAME -e KBC_DEVELOPERPORTAL_PASSWORD=$KBC_DEVELOPERPORTAL_PASSWORD -e KBC_DEVELOPERPORTAL_URL=$KBC_DEVELOPERPORTAL_URL quay.io/keboola/developer-portal-cli-v2:latest ecr:get-login keboola docker-demo)
docker push $REPOSITORY:$TRAVIS_TAG
docker push $REPOSITORY:latest

# Deploy to KBC -> update tag to current in Keboola Developer Portal
docker run --rm -e KBC_DEVELOPERPORTAL_USERNAME=$KBC_DEVELOPERPORTAL_USERNAME -e KBC_DEVELOPERPORTAL_PASSWORD=$KBC_DEVELOPERPORTAL_PASSWORD -e KBC_DEVELOPERPORTAL_URL=$KBC_DEVELOPERPORTAL_URL quay.io/keboola/developer-portal-cli-v2:latest update-app-repository keboola docker-demo $TRAVIS_TAG
{% endhighlight %}

This code will tag your image with relevant tags (`latest` and the tag of the build) and push them to our registry. 
Finally it updates the tag to current version in Developer Portal, new version of the application is deployed into KBC at the moment.

You can see both [`.travis.yml`](https://github.com/keboola/docker-demo-app/blob/master/.travis.yml) and the deploy script ([`deploy.sh`](https://github.com/keboola/docker-demo-app/blob/master/deploy.sh)) 
in our [Docker Demo App](https://github.com/keboola/docker-demo-app) GitHub repository.


This sample deployment script uses the [Developer Portal CLI](https://github.com/keboola/developer-portal-cli-v2) tool. 
The CLI (delivered as a Docker image) provides the deploy script with simple commands to retrieve the repository 
and credentials to our AWS ECR registry. The `ecr:get-repository` command returns the repository associated with user in
`KBC_DEVELOPERPORTAL_USERNAME` variable. The `ecr:get-login` command returns a `docker login ...` command to authenticate
to that repository.
