cli/commands/remote/index.md, before:

---
title: Remote Commands
permalink: /cli/commands/remote/
---

* TOC
{:toc}

**Operations directly in the [project](/cli/#subsystems).**

```
kbc remote [command]
```

|---
| Command | Description
|-|-|-
| [kbc remote create](/cli/commands/remote/create/) | Create an object in the project. |
| [kbc remote create branch](/cli/commands/remote/create/branch/) | Create a new [branch](https://help.keboola.com/components/branches/) from the `main` branch. |
| [kbc remote create bucket](/cli/commands/remote/create/bucket/) | Create a new [bucket](https://help.keboola.com/storage/buckets/). |
| [kbc remote file](/cli/commands/remote/file/) | Manage [files](https://help.keboola.com/storage/files/) in Storage. |
| [kbc remote file download](/cli/commands/remote/file/download/) | Download a [file](https://help.keboola.com/storage/files/) from Storage. |
| [kbc remote file upload](/cli/commands/remote/file/upload/) | Upload a [file](https://help.keboola.com/storage/files/) to Storage. |
| [kbc remote job](/cli/commands/remote/job/) | Manage [jobs](https://help.keboola.com/management/jobs/) in the project. |
| [kbc remote job run](/cli/commands/remote/job/run/) | Run one or more [jobs](https://help.keboola.com/management/jobs/). |
| [kbc remote table](/cli/commands/remote/table/) | Manage [tables](https://help.keboola.com/storage/tables/) in the project. |
| [kbc remote table upload](/cli/commands/remote/table/upload/) | Upload a CSV file to a [table](https://help.keboola.com/storage/tables/). |
| [kbc remote table download](/cli/commands/remote/table/download/) | Download data from a [table](https://help.keboola.com/storage/tables/). |
| [kbc remote table preview](/cli/commands/remote/table/preview/) | Preview up to 1000 rows from a [table](https://help.keboola.com/storage/tables/). |
| [kbc remote table detail](/cli/commands/remote/table/detail/) | Print [table](https://help.keboola.com/storage/tables/) details. |
| [kbc remote table unload](/cli/commands/remote/table/unload/) | Unload a [table](https://help.keboola.com/storage/tables/) into a [file](https://help.keboola.com/storage/files/). |
| [kbc remote workspace](/cli/commands/remote/create/) | Manage workspaces in the project. |
| [kbc remote workspace create](/cli/commands/remote/workspace/create/) | Create a workspace in the project. |
| [kbc remote workspace delete](/cli/commands/remote/workspace/delete/) | Delete a workspace in the project. |
| [kbc remote workspace detail](/cli/commands/remote/workspace/detail/) | Print workspace details and credentials. |
| [kbc remote workspace list](/cli/commands/remote/workspace/list/) | List workspaces in the project. |

Commit message:

Add CLI command to import table

cli/commands/remote/index.md, after:

---
title: Remote Commands
permalink: /cli/commands/remote/
---

* TOC
{:toc}

**Operations directly in the [project](/cli/#subsystems).**

```
kbc remote [command]
```

|---
| Command | Description
|-|-|-
| [kbc remote create](/cli/commands/remote/create/) | Create an object in the project. |
| [kbc remote create branch](/cli/commands/remote/create/branch/) | Create a new [branch](https://help.keboola.com/components/branches/) from the `main` branch. |
| [kbc remote create bucket](/cli/commands/remote/create/bucket/) | Create a new [bucket](https://help.keboola.com/storage/buckets/). |
| [kbc remote file](/cli/commands/remote/file/) | Manage [files](https://help.keboola.com/storage/files/) in Storage. |
| [kbc remote file download](/cli/commands/remote/file/download/) | Download a [file](https://help.keboola.com/storage/files/) from Storage. |
| [kbc remote file upload](/cli/commands/remote/file/upload/) | Upload a [file](https://help.keboola.com/storage/files/) to Storage. |
| [kbc remote job](/cli/commands/remote/job/) | Manage [jobs](https://help.keboola.com/management/jobs/) in the project. |
| [kbc remote job run](/cli/commands/remote/job/run/) | Run one or more [jobs](https://help.keboola.com/management/jobs/). |
| [kbc remote table](/cli/commands/remote/table/) | Manage [tables](https://help.keboola.com/storage/tables/) in the project. |
| [kbc remote table upload](/cli/commands/remote/table/upload/) | Upload a CSV file to a [table](https://help.keboola.com/storage/tables/). |
| [kbc remote table download](/cli/commands/remote/table/download/) | Download data from a [table](https://help.keboola.com/storage/tables/). |
| [kbc remote table preview](/cli/commands/remote/table/preview/) | Preview up to 1000 rows from a [table](https://help.keboola.com/storage/tables/). |
| [kbc remote table detail](/cli/commands/remote/table/detail/) | Print [table](https://help.keboola.com/storage/tables/) details. |
| [kbc remote table import](/cli/commands/remote/table/import/) | Import data to a [table](https://help.keboola.com/storage/tables/) from a [file](https://help.keboola.com/storage/files/). |
| [kbc remote table unload](/cli/commands/remote/table/unload/) | Unload a [table](https://help.keboola.com/storage/tables/) into a [file](https://help.keboola.com/storage/files/). |
| [kbc remote workspace](/cli/commands/remote/create/) | Manage workspaces in the project. |
| [kbc remote workspace create](/cli/commands/remote/workspace/create/) | Create a workspace in the project. |
| [kbc remote workspace delete](/cli/commands/remote/workspace/delete/) | Delete a workspace in the project. |
| [kbc remote workspace detail](/cli/commands/remote/workspace/detail/) | Print workspace details and credentials. |
| [kbc remote workspace list](/cli/commands/remote/workspace/list/) | List workspaces in the project. |
