cli/commands/sync/init/index.md, before:

---
title: Init Command
permalink: /cli/commands/sync/init/
---

* TOC
{:toc}

**Initialize a new [local directory](/cli/structure/) and run the first [pull](/cli/commands/sync/pull/).**

```
kbc sync init [flags]
```

Or shorter:
```
kbc init [flags]
kbc i [flags]
```

The command must be run in an empty directory.

If the command is run without options, it will start an interactive dialog asking for:
- URL of the [stack](https://help.keboola.com/overview/#stacks), for example, `connection.keboola.com`.
- [Master token](https://help.keboola.com/management/project/tokens/#master-tokens) to your project.
- Allowed [branches](https://help.keboola.com/tutorial/branches/) to work with.

It will allow you to create GitHub Actions workflows in the directory.

## Options

`-b, --allowed-branches <string>`
: Comma-separated list of branch IDs or name globs (use "*" for all) for branches you want to work with locally (default "main"); other branches in the project will be ignored.

`--ci-main-branch <string>`
: Name of the main branch for push/pull workflows (default "main")

`--ci-pull <bool>`
: Create a workflow to sync the main branch from the project every 5 minutes (default true)

`--ci-push <bool>`
: Create a workflow to push changes in the main branch to the project (default true)

`--ci-validate <bool>`
: Create a workflow to validate all branches on change (default true)

`-H, --storage-api-host <string>` 
: Keboola instance URL, e.g., "connection.keboola.com"

[Global Options](/cli/commands/#global-options)

## Examples

```
➜ kbc init

Please enter the Keboola Storage API host, e.g., "connection.keboola.com".
? API host connection.north-europe.azure.keboola.com

Please enter the Keboola Storage API token. Its value will be hidden.
? API token ***************************************************

Please select which project's branches you want to use with this CLI.
The other branches will still exist, but they will be invisible in the CLI.
? Allowed project's branches: only main branch

Created metadata directory ".keboola".
Created manifest file ".keboola/manifest.json".
Created file ".env.local" - it contains the API token, keep it local and secret.
Created file ".env.dist" - an ".env.local" template.
Created file ".gitignore" - to keep ".env.local" local.

? Generate workflows files for GitHub Actions? No

Init done. Running pull.
Plan for "pull" operation:
+ B main
+ C main/extractor/ex-generic-v2/empty
+ C main/extractor/keboola.ex-aws-s3/my-aws-s-3-data-source
+ R main/extractor/keboola.ex-aws-s3/my-aws-s-3-data-source/rows/share-cities
+ C main/extractor/keboola.ex-google-drive/my-google-drive-data-source
+ C main/extractor/keboola.ex-google-drive/my-google-drive-data-source/schedules/scheduler-for-7243915
+ C main/other/keboola.orchestrator/daily
+ C main/other/keboola.orchestrator/daily/schedules/scheduler-for-7243915
+ C main/other/keboola.sandboxes/address
+ C main/transformation/keboola.snowflake-transformation/address
+ C main/transformation/keboola.snowflake-transformation/address/variables
+ R main/transformation/keboola.snowflake-transformation/address/variables/values/default
Pull done.
```

## Next Steps

- [All Commands](/cli/commands/)
- [Pull](/cli/commands/sync/pull/)
- [Push](/cli/commands/sync/push/)
- [Diff](/cli/commands/sync/diff/)

Commit message:

Add kbc sync init --alow-target-env flag

cli/commands/sync/init/index.md, after:

---
title: Init Command
permalink: /cli/commands/sync/init/
---

* TOC
{:toc}

**Initialize a new [local directory](/cli/structure/) and run the first [pull](/cli/commands/sync/pull/).**

```
kbc sync init [flags]
```

Or shorter:
```
kbc init [flags]
kbc i [flags]
```

The command must be run in an empty directory.

If the command is run without options, it will start an interactive dialog asking for:
- URL of the [stack](https://help.keboola.com/overview/#stacks), for example, `connection.keboola.com`.
- [Master token](https://help.keboola.com/management/project/tokens/#master-tokens) to your project.
- Allowed [branches](https://help.keboola.com/tutorial/branches/) to work with.

It will allow you to create GitHub Actions workflows in the directory.

## Options

`--allow-target-env`
: Allow usage of `KBC_PROJECT_ID` and `KBC_BRANCH_ID` environment variables for future operations.  
Sets `true` to the `allowTargetEnv` field in the [manifest.json](/cli/structure/#manifest).

`-b, --allowed-branches <string>`
: Comma-separated list of branch IDs or name globs (use "*" for all) for branches you want to work with locally (default "main"); other branches in the project will be ignored.

`--ci-main-branch <string>`
: Name of the main branch for push/pull workflows (default "main")

`--ci-pull <bool>`
: Create a workflow to sync the main branch from the project every 5 minutes (default true)

`--ci-push <bool>`
: Create a workflow to push changes in the main branch to the project (default true)

`--ci-validate <bool>`
: Create a workflow to validate all branches on change (default true)

`-H, --storage-api-host <string>` 
: Keboola instance URL, e.g., "connection.keboola.com"

[Global Options](/cli/commands/#global-options)

## Examples

```
➜ kbc init

Please enter the Keboola Storage API host, e.g., "connection.keboola.com".
? API host connection.north-europe.azure.keboola.com

Please enter the Keboola Storage API token. Its value will be hidden.
? API token ***************************************************

Please select which project's branches you want to use with this CLI.
The other branches will still exist, but they will be invisible in the CLI.
? Allowed project's branches: only main branch

Created metadata directory ".keboola".
Created manifest file ".keboola/manifest.json".
Created file ".env.local" - it contains the API token, keep it local and secret.
Created file ".env.dist" - an ".env.local" template.
Created file ".gitignore" - to keep ".env.local" local.

? Generate workflows files for GitHub Actions? No

Init done. Running pull.
Plan for "pull" operation:
+ B main
+ C main/extractor/ex-generic-v2/empty
+ C main/extractor/keboola.ex-aws-s3/my-aws-s-3-data-source
+ R main/extractor/keboola.ex-aws-s3/my-aws-s-3-data-source/rows/share-cities
+ C main/extractor/keboola.ex-google-drive/my-google-drive-data-source
+ C main/extractor/keboola.ex-google-drive/my-google-drive-data-source/schedules/scheduler-for-7243915
+ C main/other/keboola.orchestrator/daily
+ C main/other/keboola.orchestrator/daily/schedules/scheduler-for-7243915
+ C main/other/keboola.sandboxes/address
+ C main/transformation/keboola.snowflake-transformation/address
+ C main/transformation/keboola.snowflake-transformation/address/variables
+ R main/transformation/keboola.snowflake-transformation/address/variables/values/default
Pull done.
```

## Next Steps

- [All Commands](/cli/commands/)
- [Pull](/cli/commands/sync/pull/)
- [Push](/cli/commands/sync/push/)
- [Diff](/cli/commands/sync/diff/)
