integrate/storage/api/import-export.md, before:

---
title: Manually Importing and Exporting Data
permalink: /integrate/storage/api/import-export/
---

* TOC
{:toc}

## Working with Data
KBC Table Storage (Tables) and KBC File Storage (File Uploads) are heavily connected together.
KBC File Storage is technically a layer on top of the Amazon S3 service, and KBC Table
Storage is a layer on top of a [database backend](https://help.keboola.com/storage/#backends).

To upload a table, take the following steps:

- Request a [file upload](http://docs.keboola.apiary.io/#reference/files/upload-file/upload-arbitrary-file-to-keboola) from
KBC File Storage. You will be given a destination for the uploaded file on an S3 server.
- Upload the file there. When the upload is finished, the data file will be available in the *File Uploads* section.
- Initiate an [asynchronous table import](http://docs.keboola.apiary.io/#reference/tables/load-data-asynchronously/imports-data)
from the uploaded file (use it as the `dataFileId` parameter) into the destination table.
The import is asynchronous, so the request only creates a job and you need to poll for its results.
The imported files must conform to the [supported CSV format](http://docs.keboola.apiary.io/#reference/csv-files-formats).

{: .image-popup}
![Schema of file upload process](/integrate/storage/api/async-import-handling.svg)

Exporting a table from Storage is analogous to its importing. First, data is [asynchronously
exported](http://docs.keboola.apiary.io/#reference/tables/unload-data-asynchronously/asynchronous-export) from
Table Storage into File Uploads. Then you can request to [download
the file](http://docs.keboola.apiary.io/#reference/files/manage-files/file-detail), which will give you
access to an S3 server for the actual file download.

### Manually Uploading a File
To upload a file to KBC File Storage, follow the instructions outlined in the
[API documentation](http://docs.keboola.apiary.io/#reference/files/upload-file/upload-arbitrary-file-to-keboola).
First create a file resource; to create a new file called
[`new-file.csv`](/integrate/storage/new-table.csv) with `52` bytes, call:

{% highlight bash %}
curl --request POST --header "X-StorageApi-Token:storage-token" --form "name=new-file.csv" --form "sizeBytes=52"  https://connection.keboola.com/v2/storage/files/prepare?federationToken=1
{% endhighlight %}

Which will return a response similar to this:

{% highlight json %}
{
  "id": 192726698,
  "created": "2016-06-22T10:44:35+0200",
  "isPublic": false,
  "isSliced": false,
  "isEncrypted": false,
  "name": "new_file2.csv",
  "url": "https://s3.amazonaws.com/kbc-sapi-files/exp-180/1134/files/2016/06/22/192726697.new_file2?X-Amz-Content-Sha256=UNSIGNED-PAYLOAD&X-Amz-Algorithm=AWS4-HMAC-SHA256&X-Amz-Credential=AKIAJ2N244XSWYVVYVLQ%2F20160622%2Fus-east-1%2Fs3%2Faws4_request&X-Amz-Date=20160622T084435Z&X-Amz-SignedHeaders=host&X-Amz-Expires=3600&X-Amz-Signature=86136cced74cdf919953cde9e2a0b837bd0b8f147aa6b7b30c2febde3b92d83d",
  "region": "us-east-1",
  "sizeBytes": 52,
  "tags": [],
  "maxAgeDays": 180,
  "runId": null,
  "runIds": [],
  "creatorToken": {
    "id": 53044,
    "description": "ondrej.popelka@keboola.com"
  },
  "uploadParams": {
    "key": "exp-180/1134/files/2016/06/22/192726697.new_file2.csv",
    "bucket": "kbc-sapi-files",
    "acl": "private",
    "credentials": {
      "AccessKeyId": "ASI...H7Q",
      "SecretAccessKey": "QbO...7qu",
      "SessionToken": "Ago...bsF",
      "Expiration": "2016-06-22T20:44:35+00:00"
    }
  }
}
{% endhighlight %}

The important parts are: `id` of the file, which will be needed later, the `uploadParams.credentials` node,
which gives you credentials to AWS S3 to upload your file, and
the `key` and `bucket` nodes, which define the target S3 destination as *s3://`bucket`/`key`*.
To upload the files to S3, you need an S3 client. There are a large number of clients available:
for example, use the
[S3 AWS command line client](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/installing.html).
Before using it, [pass the credentials](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/topic/config-vars.html#credentials)
by executing, for instance, the following commands

on *nix systems:
{% highlight bash %}
export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=ASI...H7Q
export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=QbO...7qu
export AWS_SESSION_TOKEN=Ago...wU=
{% endhighlight %}

or on Windows:
{% highlight bash %}
SET AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=ASI...H7Q
SET AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=QbO...7qu
SET AWS_SESSION_TOKEN=Ago...bsF
{% endhighlight %}

Then you can actually upload the `new-table.csv` file by executing the AWS S3 CLI [cp command](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/s3/cp.html):
{% highlight bash %}
aws s3 cp new-table.csv s3://kbc-sapi-files/exp-180/1134/files/2016/06/22/192726697.new_file2.csv
{% endhighlight %}

After that, import the file into Table Storage, by calling either
[Create Table API call](http://docs.keboola.apiary.io/#reference/tables/create-table-asynchronously/create-new-table-from-csv-file-asynchronously)
(for a new table) or
[Load Data API call](http://docs.keboola.apiary.io/#reference/tables/load-data-asynchronously/create-new-table-from-csv-file-asynchronously)
(for an existing table).

{% highlight bash %}
curl --request POST --header "X-StorageApi-Token:storage-token" --form "name=new-table" --form "dataFileId=192726698" https://connection.keboola.com/v2/storage/buckets/in.c-main/tables-async
{% endhighlight %}

This will create an asynchronous job, importing data from the `192726698` file into the `new-table` destination table in the `in.c-main` bucket.
Then [poll for the job results](/overview/jobs/#job-polling), or review its status in the UI.

### Table Importer Service
The process of importing data into Storage Tables can be simplified a bit by using the
[*Table Importer*](https://github.com/keboola/sapi-table-importer)
(not to be confused with [Storage API Importer](/integrate/storage/api/importer/). The Table Importer
is a KBC component which takes files from KBC File Storage (*File Uploads*) and imports them into KBC Table Storage (*Tables*).
The advantage of Table Importer is that it can be configured as part of the KBC orchestration.

To use the importer service, create a configuration table for it. The table must be placed in
the `sys.c-table-importer` bucket. Its name may be arbitrary. The configuration of a
[sample table](/integrate/storage/sys.c-table-importer.test-config.csv) is shown below:

{: .image-popup}
![Screenshot - Table importer configuration](/integrate/storage/api/api-table-exporter-setting.png)

Any table in the `sys.c-table-importer` bucket can contain any number of rows; each row corresponds to a single destination table and has to have the following columns:

- `table` --- Full name of the destination table in Storage in the following format: `bucketName`.`tableName`;
- `tag` --- Tag of an uploaded file which will be converted into the destination table;
- `rowId` --- Unique (sequential) identifier of the row;
- `primaryKey` --- Optional name of the column marked as the primary column in the table;
- `incremental` --- 0 or 1 for an incremental load of the destination table (append data to a table);
- `enclosure` --- CSV enclosure for strings (by default `"`);
- `delimiter` --- CSV delimiter (by default `,`);
- `escapedBy` --- CSV escape character for enclosure; leave empty to escape by double enclosure.

Test the above configuration by uploading a [CSV file](/integrate/storage/new-table.csv) into *File Uploads*
and assigning a tag `new-data` to it.
You can do so programatically via the API or via the UI.

{: .image-popup}
![Screenshot - File upload Tag](/integrate/storage/api/api-upload-file.png)

Then run the configuration by executing the [`run` API call](http://docs.sapitableimporter.apiary.io/#reference/api/importer-run/run-import):

{% highlight bash %}
curl --request POST --header "X-StorageApi-Token:storage-token" https://syrup.keboola.com/table-importer/run
{% endhighlight %}

which will run the import job and return:
{% highlight json %}
{
  "id": "192637706",
  "url": "https://syrup.keboola.com/queue/job/192637706",
  "status": "waiting"
}
{% endhighlight %}

Then [poll for the job status](/overview/jobs/) or review the job progress in UI.
The table importer will take all files with the specified tags (`new-data`) and import them into
the specified table (`in.c-main.new-table`). Table Importer records the last processed files, so
that each file is processed only once. The last processed file is recorded in table attributes:

{: .image-popup}
![Screenshot - Table attributes](/integrate/storage/api/table-importer-last-processed.png)

### Working with Sliced Files
Depending on the backend and table size, the data file may be sliced into chunks.
Requirements for uploading sliced files are described in the respective part of the
[API documentation](http://docs.keboola.apiary.io/#reference/files/upload-file/upload-arbitrary-file-to-keboola).

When you attempt to download a sliced file, you will instead obtain its manifest
listing the individual parts. Download the parts individually and join them
together. For a reference implementation of this process, see
our [TableExporter class](https://github.com/keboola/storage-api-php-client/blob/master/src/Keboola/StorageApi/TableExporter.php).

**Important:** When exporting a table through the *Table* --- *Export* UI, the file will
be already merged and not listed in the *File Uploads* section.

If you want to download a sliced file, [get credentials](http://docs.keboola.apiary.io/#reference/files/manage-files/file-detail)
to download the file from AWS S3. Assuming that the file ID is 192611596, for example, call

{% highlight bash %}
curl --header "X-StorageAPI-Token: storage-token" https://connection.keboola.com/v2/storage/files/192611596?federationToken=1
{% endhighlight %}

which will return a response similar to this:

{% highlight json %}
{
  "id": 192611596,
  "created": "2016-06-21T15:25:35+0200",
  "name": "in.c-redshift.blog-data.csv",
  "url": "https://s3.amazonaws.com/kbc-sapi-files/exp-30/578/table-exports/in/c-redshift/blog-data/192611594.csvmanifest?X-Amz-Content-Sha256=UNSIGNED-PAYLOAD&X-Amz-Algorithm=AWS4-HMAC-SHA256&X-Amz-Credential=AKIAJ2N244XSWYVVYVLQ%2F20160621%2Fus-east-1%2Fs3%2Faws4_request&X-Amz-Date=20160621T135137Z&X-Amz-SignedHeaders=host&X-Amz-Expires=3600&X-Amz-Signature=ee69d94f0af06bcf924df0f710dcd92e6503a13c8a11a86be2606552bf9a8b26",
  "region": "us-east-1",
  "sizeBytes": 24541,
  "tags": [
    "table-export"
  ],
  ...
  "s3Path": {
    "bucket": "kbc-sapi-files",
    "key": "exp-30/578/table-exports/in/c-redshift/blog-data/192611594.csv"
  },
  "credentials": {
    "AccessKeyId": "ASI...UQQ",
    "SecretAccessKey": "LHU...HAp",
    "SessionToken": "Ago...uwU=",
    "Expiration": "2016-06-22T01:51:37+00:00"
  }
}
{% endhighlight %}

The field `url` contains the URL to the file manifest. Upon downloading it, you will get a JSON file with contents
similar to this:

{% highlight json %}
{
  "entries": [
    {"url":"s3://kbc-sapi-files/exp-30/578/table-exports/in/c-redshift/blog-data/192611594.csv0000_part_00"},
    {"url":"s3://kbc-sapi-files/exp-30/578/table-exports/in/c-redshift/blog-data/192611594.csv0001_part_00"}
  ]
}
{% endhighlight %}

Now you can download the actual data file slices. URLs are provided in the manifest file, and credentials to them
are returned as part of the previous file info call. To download the files from S3, you need an S3 client. There
are a wide number of clients available; for example, use the
[S3 AWS command line client](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/installing.html). Before
using it, [pass the credentials](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/topic/config-vars.html#credentials)
by executing , for instance, the following commands

on *nix systems:
{% highlight bash %}
export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=ASI...UQQ
export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=LHU...HAp
export AWS_SESSION_TOKEN=Ago...wU=
{% endhighlight %}

or on Windows:
{% highlight bash %}
SET AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=ASI...UQQ
SET AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=LHU...HAp
SET AWS_SESSION_TOKEN=Ago...wU=
{% endhighlight %}

Then you can actually download the files by executing the AWS S3 CLI [cp command](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/s3/cp.html):
{% highlight bash %}
aws s3 cp s3://kbc-sapi-files/exp-30/578/table-exports/in/c-redshift/blog-data/192611594.csv0000_part_00 192611594.csv0000_part_00
aws s3 cp s3://kbc-sapi-files/exp-30/578/table-exports/in/c-redshift/blog-data/192611594.csv0001_part_00 192611594.csv0001_part_00
{% endhighlight %}

After that, merge the files together by executing the following commands

on *nix systems:
{% highlight bash %}
cat 192611594.csv0000_part_00 192611594.csv0001_part_00 > merged.csv
{% endhighlight %}

or on Windows:
{% highlight bash %}
copy 192611594.csv0000_part_00 /B +192611594.csv0001_part_00 /B merged2.csv
{% endhighlight %}

Commit message:

feat: add python script example to upload a table

integrate/storage/api/import-export.md, after:

---
title: Manually Importing and Exporting Data
permalink: /integrate/storage/api/import-export/
---

* TOC
{:toc}

## Working with Data
KBC Table Storage (Tables) and KBC File Storage (File Uploads) are heavily connected together.
KBC File Storage is technically a layer on top of the Amazon S3 service, and KBC Table
Storage is a layer on top of a [database backend](https://help.keboola.com/storage/#backends).

To upload a table, take the following steps:

- Request a [file upload](http://docs.keboola.apiary.io/#reference/files/upload-file/upload-arbitrary-file-to-keboola) from
KBC File Storage. You will be given a destination for the uploaded file on an S3 server.
- Upload the file there. When the upload is finished, the data file will be available in the *File Uploads* section.
- Initiate an [asynchronous table import](http://docs.keboola.apiary.io/#reference/tables/load-data-asynchronously/imports-data)
from the uploaded file (use it as the `dataFileId` parameter) into the destination table.
The import is asynchronous, so the request only creates a job and you need to poll for its results.
The imported files must conform to the [supported CSV format](http://docs.keboola.apiary.io/#reference/csv-files-formats).

{: .image-popup}
![Schema of file upload process](/integrate/storage/api/async-import-handling.svg)

Exporting a table from Storage is analogous to its importing. First, data is [asynchronously
exported](http://docs.keboola.apiary.io/#reference/tables/unload-data-asynchronously/asynchronous-export) from
Table Storage into File Uploads. Then you can request to [download
the file](http://docs.keboola.apiary.io/#reference/files/manage-files/file-detail), which will give you
access to an S3 server for the actual file download.

### Manually Uploading a File
To upload a file to KBC File Storage, follow the instructions outlined in the
[API documentation](http://docs.keboola.apiary.io/#reference/files/upload-file/upload-arbitrary-file-to-keboola).
First create a file resource; to create a new file called
[`new-file.csv`](/integrate/storage/new-table.csv) with `52` bytes, call:

{% highlight bash %}
curl --request POST --header "X-StorageApi-Token:storage-token" --form "name=new-file.csv" --form "sizeBytes=52"  https://connection.keboola.com/v2/storage/files/prepare?federationToken=1
{% endhighlight %}

Which will return a response similar to this:

{% highlight json %}
{
  "id": 192726698,
  "created": "2016-06-22T10:44:35+0200",
  "isPublic": false,
  "isSliced": false,
  "isEncrypted": false,
  "name": "new_file2.csv",
  "url": "https://s3.amazonaws.com/kbc-sapi-files/exp-180/1134/files/2016/06/22/192726697.new_file2?X-Amz-Content-Sha256=UNSIGNED-PAYLOAD&X-Amz-Algorithm=AWS4-HMAC-SHA256&X-Amz-Credential=AKIAJ2N244XSWYVVYVLQ%2F20160622%2Fus-east-1%2Fs3%2Faws4_request&X-Amz-Date=20160622T084435Z&X-Amz-SignedHeaders=host&X-Amz-Expires=3600&X-Amz-Signature=86136cced74cdf919953cde9e2a0b837bd0b8f147aa6b7b30c2febde3b92d83d",
  "region": "us-east-1",
  "sizeBytes": 52,
  "tags": [],
  "maxAgeDays": 180,
  "runId": null,
  "runIds": [],
  "creatorToken": {
    "id": 53044,
    "description": "ondrej.popelka@keboola.com"
  },
  "uploadParams": {
    "key": "exp-180/1134/files/2016/06/22/192726697.new_file2.csv",
    "bucket": "kbc-sapi-files",
    "acl": "private",
    "credentials": {
      "AccessKeyId": "ASI...H7Q",
      "SecretAccessKey": "QbO...7qu",
      "SessionToken": "Ago...bsF",
      "Expiration": "2016-06-22T20:44:35+00:00"
    }
  }
}
{% endhighlight %}

The important parts are: `id` of the file, which will be needed later, the `uploadParams.credentials` node,
which gives you credentials to AWS S3 to upload your file, and
the `key` and `bucket` nodes, which define the target S3 destination as *s3://`bucket`/`key`*.
To upload the files to S3, you need an S3 client. There are a large number of clients available:
for example, use the
[S3 AWS command line client](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/installing.html).
Before using it, [pass the credentials](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/topic/config-vars.html#credentials)
by executing, for instance, the following commands

on *nix systems:
{% highlight bash %}
export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=ASI...H7Q
export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=QbO...7qu
export AWS_SESSION_TOKEN=Ago...wU=
{% endhighlight %}

or on Windows:
{% highlight bash %}
SET AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=ASI...H7Q
SET AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=QbO...7qu
SET AWS_SESSION_TOKEN=Ago...bsF
{% endhighlight %}

Then you can actually upload the `new-table.csv` file by executing the AWS S3 CLI [cp command](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/s3/cp.html):
{% highlight bash %}
aws s3 cp new-table.csv s3://kbc-sapi-files/exp-180/1134/files/2016/06/22/192726697.new_file2.csv
{% endhighlight %}

After that, import the file into Table Storage, by calling either
[Create Table API call](http://docs.keboola.apiary.io/#reference/tables/create-table-asynchronously/create-new-table-from-csv-file-asynchronously)
(for a new table) or
[Load Data API call](http://docs.keboola.apiary.io/#reference/tables/load-data-asynchronously/create-new-table-from-csv-file-asynchronously)
(for an existing table).

{% highlight bash %}
curl --request POST --header "X-StorageApi-Token:storage-token" --form "name=new-table" --form "dataFileId=192726698" https://connection.keboola.com/v2/storage/buckets/in.c-main/tables-async
{% endhighlight %}

This will create an asynchronous job, importing data from the `192726698` file into the `new-table` destination table in the `in.c-main` bucket.
Then [poll for the job results](/overview/jobs/#job-polling), or review its status in the UI.

#### Python Example
The above process is implemented in the following example script in Python. This script uses the
[Requests](http://docs.python-requests.org/en/master/) library for sending HTTP requests and
the [Boto 3](https://github.com/boto/boto3) library for working with Amazon S3. Both libraries can be
installed using pip:

{% highlight bash %}
pip install boto3
pip install requests
{% endhighlight %}

{% highlight python %}
{% include async-create.py %}
{% endhighlight %}

### Table Importer Service
The process of importing data into Storage Tables can be simplified a bit by using the
[*Table Importer*](https://github.com/keboola/sapi-table-importer)
(not to be confused with [Storage API Importer](/integrate/storage/api/importer/). The Table Importer
is a KBC component which takes files from KBC File Storage (*File Uploads*) and imports them into KBC Table Storage (*Tables*).
The advantage of Table Importer is that it can be configured as part of the KBC orchestration.

To use the importer service, create a configuration table for it. The table must be placed in
the `sys.c-table-importer` bucket. Its name may be arbitrary. The configuration of a
[sample table](/integrate/storage/sys.c-table-importer.test-config.csv) is shown below:

{: .image-popup}
![Screenshot - Table importer configuration](/integrate/storage/api/api-table-exporter-setting.png)

Any table in the `sys.c-table-importer` bucket can contain any number of rows; each row corresponds to a single destination table and has to have the following columns:

- `table` --- Full name of the destination table in Storage in the following format: `bucketName`.`tableName`;
- `tag` --- Tag of an uploaded file which will be converted into the destination table;
- `rowId` --- Unique (sequential) identifier of the row;
- `primaryKey` --- Optional name of the column marked as the primary column in the table;
- `incremental` --- 0 or 1 for an incremental load of the destination table (append data to a table);
- `enclosure` --- CSV enclosure for strings (by default `"`);
- `delimiter` --- CSV delimiter (by default `,`);
- `escapedBy` --- CSV escape character for enclosure; leave empty to escape by double enclosure.

Test the above configuration by uploading a [CSV file](/integrate/storage/new-table.csv) into *File Uploads*
and assigning a tag `new-data` to it.
You can do so programatically via the API or via the UI.

{: .image-popup}
![Screenshot - File upload Tag](/integrate/storage/api/api-upload-file.png)

Then run the configuration by executing the [`run` API call](http://docs.sapitableimporter.apiary.io/#reference/api/importer-run/run-import):

{% highlight bash %}
curl --request POST --header "X-StorageApi-Token:storage-token" https://syrup.keboola.com/table-importer/run
{% endhighlight %}

which will run the import job and return:
{% highlight json %}
{
  "id": "192637706",
  "url": "https://syrup.keboola.com/queue/job/192637706",
  "status": "waiting"
}
{% endhighlight %}

Then [poll for the job status](/overview/jobs/) or review the job progress in UI.
The table importer will take all files with the specified tags (`new-data`) and import them into
the specified table (`in.c-main.new-table`). Table Importer records the last processed files, so
that each file is processed only once. The last processed file is recorded in table attributes:

{: .image-popup}
![Screenshot - Table attributes](/integrate/storage/api/table-importer-last-processed.png)

### Working with Sliced Files
Depending on the backend and table size, the data file may be sliced into chunks.
Requirements for uploading sliced files are described in the respective part of the
[API documentation](http://docs.keboola.apiary.io/#reference/files/upload-file/upload-arbitrary-file-to-keboola).

When you attempt to download a sliced file, you will instead obtain its manifest
listing the individual parts. Download the parts individually and join them
together. For a reference implementation of this process, see
our [TableExporter class](https://github.com/keboola/storage-api-php-client/blob/master/src/Keboola/StorageApi/TableExporter.php).

**Important:** When exporting a table through the *Table* --- *Export* UI, the file will
be already merged and not listed in the *File Uploads* section.

If you want to download a sliced file, [get credentials](http://docs.keboola.apiary.io/#reference/files/manage-files/file-detail)
to download the file from AWS S3. Assuming that the file ID is 192611596, for example, call

{% highlight bash %}
curl --header "X-StorageAPI-Token: storage-token" https://connection.keboola.com/v2/storage/files/192611596?federationToken=1
{% endhighlight %}

which will return a response similar to this:

{% highlight json %}
{
  "id": 192611596,
  "created": "2016-06-21T15:25:35+0200",
  "name": "in.c-redshift.blog-data.csv",
  "url": "https://s3.amazonaws.com/kbc-sapi-files/exp-30/578/table-exports/in/c-redshift/blog-data/192611594.csvmanifest?X-Amz-Content-Sha256=UNSIGNED-PAYLOAD&X-Amz-Algorithm=AWS4-HMAC-SHA256&X-Amz-Credential=AKIAJ2N244XSWYVVYVLQ%2F20160621%2Fus-east-1%2Fs3%2Faws4_request&X-Amz-Date=20160621T135137Z&X-Amz-SignedHeaders=host&X-Amz-Expires=3600&X-Amz-Signature=ee69d94f0af06bcf924df0f710dcd92e6503a13c8a11a86be2606552bf9a8b26",
  "region": "us-east-1",
  "sizeBytes": 24541,
  "tags": [
    "table-export"
  ],
  ...
  "s3Path": {
    "bucket": "kbc-sapi-files",
    "key": "exp-30/578/table-exports/in/c-redshift/blog-data/192611594.csv"
  },
  "credentials": {
    "AccessKeyId": "ASI...UQQ",
    "SecretAccessKey": "LHU...HAp",
    "SessionToken": "Ago...uwU=",
    "Expiration": "2016-06-22T01:51:37+00:00"
  }
}
{% endhighlight %}

The field `url` contains the URL to the file manifest. Upon downloading it, you will get a JSON file with contents
similar to this:

{% highlight json %}
{
  "entries": [
    {"url":"s3://kbc-sapi-files/exp-30/578/table-exports/in/c-redshift/blog-data/192611594.csv0000_part_00"},
    {"url":"s3://kbc-sapi-files/exp-30/578/table-exports/in/c-redshift/blog-data/192611594.csv0001_part_00"}
  ]
}
{% endhighlight %}

Now you can download the actual data file slices. URLs are provided in the manifest file, and credentials to them
are returned as part of the previous file info call. To download the files from S3, you need an S3 client. There
are a wide number of clients available; for example, use the
[S3 AWS command line client](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/installing.html). Before
using it, [pass the credentials](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/topic/config-vars.html#credentials)
by executing , for instance, the following commands

on *nix systems:
{% highlight bash %}
export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=ASI...UQQ
export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=LHU...HAp
export AWS_SESSION_TOKEN=Ago...wU=
{% endhighlight %}

or on Windows:
{% highlight bash %}
SET AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=ASI...UQQ
SET AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=LHU...HAp
SET AWS_SESSION_TOKEN=Ago...wU=
{% endhighlight %}

Then you can actually download the files by executing the AWS S3 CLI [cp command](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/s3/cp.html):
{% highlight bash %}
aws s3 cp s3://kbc-sapi-files/exp-30/578/table-exports/in/c-redshift/blog-data/192611594.csv0000_part_00 192611594.csv0000_part_00
aws s3 cp s3://kbc-sapi-files/exp-30/578/table-exports/in/c-redshift/blog-data/192611594.csv0001_part_00 192611594.csv0001_part_00
{% endhighlight %}

After that, merge the files together by executing the following commands

on *nix systems:
{% highlight bash %}
cat 192611594.csv0000_part_00 192611594.csv0001_part_00 > merged.csv
{% endhighlight %}

or on Windows:
{% highlight bash %}
copy 192611594.csv0000_part_00 /B +192611594.csv0001_part_00 /B merged2.csv
{% endhighlight %}
