extend/component/tutorial/configuration.md, before:

---
title: Configuration
permalink: /extend/component/tutorial/configuration/
---

* TOC
{:toc}

In this part of the [tutorial](/extend/component/tutorial/), you will see how to pass
arbitrary configuration parameters to your component. By this time, you probably noticed
that your component has a configuration field:

{: .image-popup}
![Screenshot -- Configuration Empty](/extend/component/tutorial/configuration-1.png)

You can use this field to pass arbitrary configuration parameters to your component.
The parameters will be available in the [/data/config.json](/extend/common-interface/config-file/) file provided to the
component when it is [run](/extend/docker-runner/).

Note: if you don't want to hard-code the [`/data/` directory](/extend/common-interface/folders/#root-folder-data) use the [`KBC_DATADIR`](/extend/common-interface/environment/#environment-variables) environment variable.

Let's assume you want to make the [sample component](/extend/component/tutorial/output-mapping/)
add a given sound to each row a given number of times. For that you'll need two parameters: `sound` and `repeat`.

## Modifying Source Code
To implement the above, you can change the [sample component](/extend/component/tutorial/output-mapping/) to:

{% highlight python %}

import csv
# Load the KBC library to process the config file
from keboola import docker
cfg = docker.Config('/data/')
params = cfg.get_parameters()

print("Hello world from python")

csvlt = '\n'
csvdel = ','
csvquo = '"'
with open('/data/in/tables/source.csv', mode='rt', encoding='utf-8') as in_file, \
        open('/data/out/tables/odd.csv', mode='wt', encoding='utf-8') as odd_file, \
        open('/data/out/tables/even.csv', mode='wt', encoding='utf-8') as even_file:
    lazy_lines = (line.replace('\0', '') for line in in_file)
    reader = csv.DictReader(lazy_lines, lineterminator=csvlt, delimiter=csvdel,
                            quotechar=csvquo)

    odd_writer = csv.DictWriter(odd_file, fieldnames=reader.fieldnames,
                                lineterminator=csvlt, delimiter=csvdel,
                                quotechar=csvquo)
    odd_writer.writeheader()

    even_writer = csv.DictWriter(even_file, fieldnames=reader.fieldnames,
                                 lineterminator=csvlt, delimiter=csvdel,
                                 quotechar=csvquo)
    even_writer.writeheader()
    i = 0
    for row in reader:
        if i % 2 == 0:
            even_writer.writerow(row)
        else:
            newRow = {}
            for key in reader.fieldnames:
                newRow[key] = row[key] + ''.join([params['sound']] * params['repeat'])
            odd_writer.writerow(newRow)
        i = i + 1

{% endhighlight %}

At the beginning, the [KBC Docker library](https://github.com/keboola/python-docker-application) is imported and
initialized by reading the `data` directory (`docker.Config('/data/')`). Its method `get_parameters` will provide the
configuration parameters as a dictionary. The library is currently available for the [R language](https://github.com/keboola/r-docker-application) and
[Python](https://github.com/keboola/python-docker-application). It does no magic or rocket science, so you can
read the [config file](/extend/common-interface/config-file/) directly if you wish.

Commit and push the code in your repository and tag it with a [normal version tag](https://semver.org/#spec-item-2).
This will trigger a [build on Travis CI](https://docs.travis-ci.com/) and automatically
deploy the new version into KBC. Keep in mind that after the deployment, it may take up to 5 minutes for the update to propagate to all KBC instances.

## Verifying
To verify that the parameters work, simply edit the component configuration in KBC and paste in, for example:

{% highlight json %}
{
    "sound": "Moo",
    "repeat": 2
}
{% endhighlight %}

{: .image-popup}
![Screenshot -- Configuration Filled](/extend/component/tutorial/configuration-2.png)

Run the component and examine the job results. In the `odd` result table, you should see that `Moo` was added twice to every value.

{: .image-popup}
![Screenshot -- Table Results](/extend/component/tutorial/configuration-3.png)

## Creating UI
Entering configuration parameters using JSON data is quite low-level. Therefore you should
provide a UI for the end user. The easiest option is to take advantage of the
[JSON editor](https://github.com/jdorn/json-editor) based on the
[configuration schema](/extend/component/ui-options/configuration-schema/). For the above
configuration, the following schema can be created:

{% highlight json %}
{
    "title": "Person",
    "type": "object",
    "properties": {
        "sound": {
            "type": "string",
            "title": "Sound:",
            "default": "Boo",
            "description": "The sound to make."
        },
        "repeat": {
            "type": "integer",
            "title": "Repeat sound:",
            "description": "Number of times to repeat the sound.",
            "default": 2,
            "minimum": 0,
            "maximum": 10
        }
    },
    "required": ["sound", "repeat"]
}
{% endhighlight %}

In the schema the two properties `sound` and `repeat` are declared along with the specification
of their form input fields.
You can test the above schema [online](http://jeremydorn.com/json-editor/) ([alternative](https://mozilla-services.github.io/react-jsonschema-form/)) and verify that the
form generated from it produces the desired JSON structure. Once satisfied with the result,
simply paste the schema into the **Configuration schema** in your component properties in the
[Developer Portal](https://components.keboola.com/).

Once the change propagates to your KBC instance, you should see the form in the UI:

{: .image-popup}
![Screenshot -- Configuration Form](/extend/component/tutorial/configuration-4.png)

The end user can now configure your component without writing the JSON with parameters. For a very complex UI, the
JSON schema editor is not really suitable; contact us about available options.

## Summary
Your component can now successfully read configuration parameters provided by the end user. You can read more about all the features of the
[configuration file](/extend/common-interface/config-file/).
Keep in mind that the code presented above is simplified as it does not use any validation of
end user parameters. The next part of the tutorial will show you
how to [configure processors](/extend/component/tutorial/processors/).

Commit message:

Remove docker-application references, add python-component lib documentation in implementatio/python, update Tutorial section with new library

extend/component/tutorial/configuration.md, after:

---
title: Configuration
permalink: /extend/component/tutorial/configuration/
---

* TOC
{:toc}

In this part of the [tutorial](/extend/component/tutorial/), you will see how to pass
arbitrary configuration parameters to your component. By this time, you probably noticed
that your component has a configuration field:

{: .image-popup}
![Screenshot -- Configuration Empty](/extend/component/tutorial/configuration-1.png)

You can use this field to pass arbitrary configuration parameters to your component.
The parameters will be available in the [/data/config.json](/extend/common-interface/config-file/) file provided to the
component when it is [run](/extend/docker-runner/).

Note: if you don't want to hard-code the [`/data/` directory](/extend/common-interface/folders/#root-folder-data) use the [`KBC_DATADIR`](/extend/common-interface/environment/#environment-variables) environment variable.

Let's assume you want to make the [sample component](/extend/component/tutorial/output-mapping/)
add a given sound to each row a given number of times. For that you'll need two parameters: `sound` and `repeat`.

## Modifying Source Code
To implement the above, you can change the [sample component](/extend/component/tutorial/output-mapping/) to:

```python
import csv
import os

# Load the KBC library to process the config file
from keboola.component import CommonInterface

# Rely on the KBC_DATADIR environment variable by default,
# alternatively provide a data folder path in the constructor (CommonInterface('data'))
ci = CommonInterface()
params = ci.configuration.parameters

print("Hello world from python")

csvlt = '\n'
csvdel = ','
csvquo = '"'

# get input table definition by name
in_table = ci.get_input_table_definition_by_name('source.csv')

with open(in_table.full_path, mode='rt', encoding='utf-8') as in_file, \
        open(os.path.join(ci.tables_out_path, 'odd.csv'), mode='wt', encoding='utf-8') as odd_file, \
        open(os.path.join(ci.tables_out_path, 'even.csv'), mode='wt', encoding='utf-8') as even_file:
    lazy_lines = (line.replace('\0', '') for line in in_file)
    reader = csv.DictReader(lazy_lines, lineterminator=csvlt, delimiter=csvdel,
                            quotechar=csvquo)

    odd_writer = csv.DictWriter(odd_file, fieldnames=reader.fieldnames,
                                lineterminator=csvlt, delimiter=csvdel,
                                quotechar=csvquo)
    odd_writer.writeheader()

    even_writer = csv.DictWriter(even_file, fieldnames=reader.fieldnames,
                                 lineterminator=csvlt, delimiter=csvdel,
                                 quotechar=csvquo)
    even_writer.writeheader()
    i = 0
    for row in reader:
        if i % 2 == 0:
            even_writer.writerow(row)
        else:
            newRow = {}
            for key in reader.fieldnames:
                newRow[key] = row[key] + ''.join([params['sound']] * params['repeat'])
            odd_writer.writerow(newRow)
        i = i + 1


```

At the beginning, the [KBC Python library](https://github.com/keboola/python-component) is imported and
initialized by reading the `data` directory (`CommonInterface()`). Its property `configuration.parameters` will provide the
configuration parameters as a dictionary. Apart from that the [Python library](https://github.com/keboola/python-component)
 provides methods to handle input / output files and many more (see [here](/extend/component/implementation/python/) for more information). 

Similar library is currently available also for the [R language](https://github.com/keboola/r-docker-application). 
It does no magic or rocket science, so you can read the [config file](/extend/common-interface/config-file/) directly if you wish.

Commit and push the code in your repository and tag it with a [normal version tag](https://semver.org/#spec-item-2).
This will trigger a [build on Travis CI](https://docs.travis-ci.com/) and automatically
deploy the new version into KBC. Keep in mind that after the deployment, it may take up to 5 minutes for the update to propagate to all KBC instances.

## Verifying
To verify that the parameters work, simply edit the component configuration in KBC and paste in, for example:

{% highlight json %}
{
    "sound": "Moo",
    "repeat": 2
}
{% endhighlight %}

{: .image-popup}
![Screenshot -- Configuration Filled](/extend/component/tutorial/configuration-2.png)

Run the component and examine the job results. In the `odd` result table, you should see that `Moo` was added twice to every value.

{: .image-popup}
![Screenshot -- Table Results](/extend/component/tutorial/configuration-3.png)

## Creating UI
Entering configuration parameters using JSON data is quite low-level. Therefore you should
provide a UI for the end user. The easiest option is to take advantage of the
[JSON editor](https://github.com/jdorn/json-editor) based on the
[configuration schema](/extend/component/ui-options/configuration-schema/). For the above
configuration, the following schema can be created:

{% highlight json %}
{
    "title": "Person",
    "type": "object",
    "properties": {
        "sound": {
            "type": "string",
            "title": "Sound:",
            "default": "Boo",
            "description": "The sound to make."
        },
        "repeat": {
            "type": "integer",
            "title": "Repeat sound:",
            "description": "Number of times to repeat the sound.",
            "default": 2,
            "minimum": 0,
            "maximum": 10
        }
    },
    "required": ["sound", "repeat"]
}
{% endhighlight %}

In the schema the two properties `sound` and `repeat` are declared along with the specification
of their form input fields.
You can test the above schema [online](http://jeremydorn.com/json-editor/) ([alternative](https://mozilla-services.github.io/react-jsonschema-form/)) and verify that the
form generated from it produces the desired JSON structure. Once satisfied with the result,
simply paste the schema into the **Configuration schema** in your component properties in the
[Developer Portal](https://components.keboola.com/).

Once the change propagates to your KBC instance, you should see the form in the UI:

{: .image-popup}
![Screenshot -- Configuration Form](/extend/component/tutorial/configuration-4.png)

The end user can now configure your component without writing the JSON with parameters. For a very complex UI, the
JSON schema editor is not really suitable; contact us about available options.

## Summary
Your component can now successfully read configuration parameters provided by the end user. You can read more about all the features of the
[configuration file](/extend/common-interface/config-file/).
Keep in mind that the code presented above is simplified as it does not use any validation of
end user parameters. The next part of the tutorial will show you
how to [configure processors](/extend/component/tutorial/processors/).
