cli/templates/tests/index.md, before:

---
title: Template Tests
permalink: /cli/templates/tests/
---

* TOC
{:toc}

**Warning: "templates" is an experimental feature.**

## How the Tests Work

Each test can be run locally, remotely, or both ways. See the [CLI command](/cli/commands/template/test/run/) for more information.

**Local** running of the test prepares a directory with a fake empty project and [applies](/cli/commands/local/template/use/) 
the template to it using `inputs.json` file for the template inputs. Then the state of the directory is compared 
to the `expected-out` directory of the test.

**Remote** running of the test again [applies](/cli/commands/local/template/use/) the template to a project 
using `inputs.json` file for the template inputs like the local one but uses a real project in a public Keboola stack 
that you have to provide (see the [CLI command](/cli/commands/template/test/run/) for details). Then it performs 
[push](/cli/commands/sync/push/) to the project and runs the [main config](/cli/templates/structure/#manifest) of the template.
It waits for the result of the job and evaluates if it ended successfully or not. Any other error during the whole process
is considered as the test fail and the command exits with an error.

A template directory contains directory `tests` that should gather one or more subdirectories with tests for the template.
The directory for each test has to contain a directory `expected-out` and file `inputs.json`. 

You can have a test generated by a [CLI command](/cli/commands/template/test/create/). 

## Expected Out

The `expected-out` directory looks like a regular [project directory](/cli/structure/) after applying the template. 
Some values in the project manifest cannot be reused freely and are dependent on the project 
(project id, host, and main branch id) or the template instance (instance id). For these values the template test command
supports placeholders in the directory:

- `__PROJECT_ID__` is replaced by a current project id during the test run.
- `__STORAGE_API_HOST__` is replaced by a current Keboola stack host of the project during the test run.
- `__MAIN_BRANCH_ID__` is replaced by a current main branch id of the project during the test run.

Then you can use wildcards for comparison of dynamic values:

- `%e`: Represents a directory separator, for example, `/` on Linux.
- `%s`: One or more of anything (character or white space) except the end-of-line character.
- `%S`: Zero or more of anything (character or white space) except the end-of-line character.
- `%a`: One or more of anything (character or white space) including the end-of-line character.
- `%A`: Zero or more of anything (character or white space) including the end-of-line character.
- `%w`: Zero or more white space characters.
- `%i`: A signed integer value, for example, +3142, -3142.
- `%d`: An unsigned integer value, for example, 123456.
- `%x`: One or more hexadecimal character. That is, characters in the range 0-9, a-f, and A-F.
- `%f`: A floating point number, for example, 3.142, -3.142, 3.142E-10, 3.142e+10.
- `%c`: A single character of any sort.
- `%%`: A literal percent character: %.

Example of `.keboola/manifest.json`:

```json
{
  "version": 2,
  "project": {
    "id": __PROJECT_ID__,
    "apiHost": "__STORAGE_API_HOST__"
  },
  "sortBy": "id",
  "naming": {},
  "allowedBranches": ["*"],
  "ignoredComponents": [],
  "templates": {
    "repositories": [
      {
        "type": "dir",
        "name": "keboola",
        "url": "../repository",
        "ref": "main"
      }
    ]
  },
  "branches": [
    {
      "id": __MAIN_BRANCH_ID__,
      "path": "main",
      "metadata": {
        "KBC.KAC.templates.instances": "%s"
      }
    }
  ],
  "configurations": [
    {
      "branchId": __MAIN_BRANCH_ID__,
      "componentId": "ex-generic-v2",
      "id": "%s",
      "path": "extractor/ex-generic-v2/empty",
      "metadata": {
        "KBC.KAC.templates.configId": "{\"idInTemplate\":\"empty\"}",
        "KBC.KAC.templates.configInputs": "[{\"input\":\"ex-generic-v2-oauth\",\"key\":\"authorization.oauth_api\"},{\"input\":\"ex-generic-v2-api-base-url\",\"key\":\"parameters.api.baseUrl\"}]",
        "KBC.KAC.templates.instanceId": "%s",
        "KBC.KAC.templates.repository": "keboola",
        "KBC.KAC.templates.templateId": "my-template"
      },
      "rows": []
    }
  ]
}

```

## Inputs.json

The `inputs.json` file has to contain values for inputs that the template expects during its application to the project.
It is a one-level key-value store:

```json
{
  "input1": "value 1",
  "input2": 2
}
```

The file supports complex values and can even refer to an OAuth configuration:

```json
{
  "oauthInput": {
    "id": "123",
    "version": 3
  }
}
```

Sensitive values can be stored in environmental variables and referred to using a placeholder encapsulated by `##`. 
The variables need to be prefixed by `KBC_SECRET_`. 

This configuration means that input `inputToken` will get its value from the env variable `KBC_SECRET_MY_TEMPLATE_TOKEN`:

```json
{
  "inputToken": "##KBC_SECRET_MY_TEMPLATE_TOKEN##"
}
```

Commit message:

Fix sensitive values description in tmpl tests

cli/templates/tests/index.md, after:

---
title: Template Tests
permalink: /cli/templates/tests/
---

* TOC
{:toc}

**Warning: "templates" is an experimental feature.**

## How the Tests Work

Each test can be run locally, remotely, or both ways. See the [CLI command](/cli/commands/template/test/run/) for more information.

**Local** running of the test prepares a directory with a fake empty project and [applies](/cli/commands/local/template/use/) 
the template to it using `inputs.json` file for the template inputs. Then the state of the directory is compared 
to the `expected-out` directory of the test.

**Remote** running of the test again [applies](/cli/commands/local/template/use/) the template to a project 
using `inputs.json` file for the template inputs like the local one but uses a real project in a public Keboola stack 
that you have to provide (see the [CLI command](/cli/commands/template/test/run/) for details). Then it performs 
[push](/cli/commands/sync/push/) to the project and runs the [main config](/cli/templates/structure/#manifest) of the template.
It waits for the result of the job and evaluates if it ended successfully or not. Any other error during the whole process
is considered as the test fail and the command exits with an error.

A template directory contains directory `tests` that should gather one or more subdirectories with tests for the template.
The directory for each test has to contain a directory `expected-out` and file `inputs.json`. 

You can have a test generated by a [CLI command](/cli/commands/template/test/create/). 

## Expected Out

The `expected-out` directory looks like a regular [project directory](/cli/structure/) after applying the template. 
Some values in the project manifest cannot be reused freely and are dependent on the project 
(project id, host, and main branch id) or the template instance (instance id). For these values the template test command
supports placeholders in the directory:

- `__PROJECT_ID__` is replaced by a current project id during the test run.
- `__STORAGE_API_HOST__` is replaced by a current Keboola stack host of the project during the test run.
- `__MAIN_BRANCH_ID__` is replaced by a current main branch id of the project during the test run.

Then you can use wildcards for comparison of dynamic values:

- `%e`: Represents a directory separator, for example, `/` on Linux.
- `%s`: One or more of anything (character or white space) except the end-of-line character.
- `%S`: Zero or more of anything (character or white space) except the end-of-line character.
- `%a`: One or more of anything (character or white space) including the end-of-line character.
- `%A`: Zero or more of anything (character or white space) including the end-of-line character.
- `%w`: Zero or more white space characters.
- `%i`: A signed integer value, for example, +3142, -3142.
- `%d`: An unsigned integer value, for example, 123456.
- `%x`: One or more hexadecimal character. That is, characters in the range 0-9, a-f, and A-F.
- `%f`: A floating point number, for example, 3.142, -3.142, 3.142E-10, 3.142e+10.
- `%c`: A single character of any sort.
- `%%`: A literal percent character: %.

Example of `.keboola/manifest.json`:

```json
{
  "version": 2,
  "project": {
    "id": __PROJECT_ID__,
    "apiHost": "__STORAGE_API_HOST__"
  },
  "sortBy": "id",
  "naming": {},
  "allowedBranches": ["*"],
  "ignoredComponents": [],
  "templates": {
    "repositories": [
      {
        "type": "dir",
        "name": "keboola",
        "url": "../repository",
        "ref": "main"
      }
    ]
  },
  "branches": [
    {
      "id": __MAIN_BRANCH_ID__,
      "path": "main",
      "metadata": {
        "KBC.KAC.templates.instances": "%s"
      }
    }
  ],
  "configurations": [
    {
      "branchId": __MAIN_BRANCH_ID__,
      "componentId": "ex-generic-v2",
      "id": "%s",
      "path": "extractor/ex-generic-v2/empty",
      "metadata": {
        "KBC.KAC.templates.configId": "{\"idInTemplate\":\"empty\"}",
        "KBC.KAC.templates.configInputs": "[{\"input\":\"ex-generic-v2-oauth\",\"key\":\"authorization.oauth_api\"},{\"input\":\"ex-generic-v2-api-base-url\",\"key\":\"parameters.api.baseUrl\"}]",
        "KBC.KAC.templates.instanceId": "%s",
        "KBC.KAC.templates.repository": "keboola",
        "KBC.KAC.templates.templateId": "my-template"
      },
      "rows": []
    }
  ]
}

```

## Inputs.json

The `inputs.json` file has to contain values for inputs that the template expects during its application to the project.
It is a one-level key-value store:

```json
{
  "input1": "value 1",
  "input2": 2
}
```

The file supports complex values and can even refer to an OAuth configuration:

```json
{
  "oauthInput": {
    "id": "123",
    "version": 3
  }
}
```

## Sensitive Values

Sensitive values can be stored in environmental variables and referred to using a placeholder encapsulated by `##`. 
The variables need to be prefixed by `KBC_SECRET_`. 

This `inputs.json` snippet means that input `inputToken` will get its value from the env variable `KBC_SECRET_MY_TEMPLATE_TOKEN`:

```json
{
  "inputToken": "##KBC_SECRET_MY_TEMPLATE_TOKEN##"
}
```
