extend/generic-extractor/api/authentication/oauth20-login.md, before:

---
title: Login Using OAuth 2.0 Authentication
permalink: /extend/generic-extractor/configuration/api/authentication/oauth20-login/
---

* TOC
{:toc}

The OAuth Login method is useful when you need to send a one-time **login request** to obtain temporary credentials 
for authentication of all the other API requests. A sample OAuth Login authentication looks like this:

{% highlight json %}
{
    "api": {
        ...,
        "authentication": {
            "type": "oauth20.login",
            "loginRequest": {
                "endpoint": "login",
                "method": "GET",
                "headers": {
                    "X-Login": "JohnDoe",
                    "X-Password": "TopSecret"
                }
            },
            "apiRequest": {
                "headers": {
                    "X-ApiToken": "authorization.token"
                }
            }
        }
    },
    "config": {
        ...
    }
}
{% endhighlight %}

## Configuration Parameters
The configuration parameters are identical to the [Login](/extend/generic-extractor/configuration/api/authentication/login/) method.
The difference, however, is in the [function context](/extend/generic-extractor/functions/#oauth-20-login-authentication-context).
The **login request** is assumed to require OAuth2 authorization and its response must be in JSON format (plaintext is not supported).

## Examples

### Basic Configuration
The following configuration shows how to set up an OAuth *login request*:

{% highlight json %}
{
    "parameters": {
        "api": {
            "baseUrl": "http://mock-server:80/105-oauth2-login/",
            "authentication": {
                "type": "oauth20.login",
                "loginRequest": {
                    "endpoint": "token",
                    "headers": {
                        "X-Refresh-Token": {
                            "user": "refresh_token"
                        },
                        "X-App-Key": {
                            "consumer": "client_id"
                        }
                    }
                },
                "apiRequest": {
                    "headers": {
                        "X-Access-Token": "credentials.access_token"
                    }
                }
            }
        },
        "config": {
            "outputBucket": "mock-server",
            "jobs": [
                {
                    "endpoint": "users",
                    "dataType": "users"
                }
            ]
        }
    },
    "authorization": {
        "oauth_api": {
            "credentials": {
                "#data": "{\"status\": \"ok\",\"refresh_token\": \"1234abcd5678efgh\"}",
                "appKey": "someId",
                "#appSecret": "clientSecret"
            }
        }
    }
}
{% endhighlight %}

First, an OAuth login is negotiated. The result of this authentication is a response from the API (inserted into 
the `authorization.oauth_api.credentials.#data` property): 

{% highlight json %}
{
    "status": "ok",
    "refresh_token": "1234abcd5678efgh"
}
{% endhighlight %}

This is sent to the `/token` endpoint with the following headers:

    X-Refresh-Token: 1234abcd5678efgh
    X-App-Key: someId

This API call then returns the following response:

{% highlight json %}
{
	"credentials": {
		"validUntil": "2017-10-04 12:45:09",
		"access_token": "mkoijn098uhbygv"
	}
}
{% endhighlight %}

From that, the value of the `credentials.access_token` property is taken, inserted into the `X-Access-Token` header
and sent to other API requests (`/users`).

See [example [EX105]](https://github.com/keboola/generic-extractor/tree/master/doc/examples/105-oauth2-login).


### Google API Configuration
The following example shows how to set up an OAuth *login request* for Google APIs.

#### Generate access tokens 
First, visit [Google API Console](https://console.developers.google.com/apis/credentials) to obtain OAuth 2.0 credentials such as a *Client ID* and *Client secret*.

Add `https://developers.google.com/oauthplayground` to Authorized redirect URIs:
 
{: .image-popup}
![Google API Console](/extend/generic-extractor/api/authentication/oauth20-login-console.png)
 
Then, you need to generate *access* and *refresh* tokens using [Google OAuth 2.0 Playground](https://developers.google.com/oauthplayground/).

Provide your Client ID and Client secret in the settings of OAuth 2.0 Playground:

{: .image-popup}
![Google OAuth 2.0 Playground 1](/extend/generic-extractor/api/authentication/oauth20-login-playground-1.png)

Make sure the Offline Access option is checked.
Close the settings dialog.

On the left side, choose which scopes you would like to authorize and click on *Authorize APIs*.

{: .image-popup}
![Google OAuth 2.0 Playground 1](/extend/generic-extractor/api/authentication/oauth20-login-playground-2.png)

Then exchange the authorization code for tokens:

{: .image-popup}
![Google OAuth 2.0 Playground 1](/extend/generic-extractor/api/authentication/oauth20-login-playground-3.png)

#### Configuration 

Use the generated tokens in the generic extractor configuration. 
Use the JSON response with access and refresh tokens and paste it as string under `#data` key in `authorization.oauth_api.credentials`.
You have to escape doublequotes `"` in the JSON response and preferably remove newlines too, so it looks like this:

`{\"access_token\": \"MY_ACCESS_TOKEN\",\"refresh_token\": \"MY_REFRESH_TOKEN\"}`

Here is a complete configuration example for AdSense:

{% highlight json %}
{
  "parameters": {
    "api": {
      "baseUrl": "https://www.googleapis.com",
      "authentication": {
        "type": "oauth20.login",
        "loginRequest": {
          "endpoint": "/oauth2/v4/token",
          "method": "FORM",
          "headers": {
            "Content-Type": "application/x-www-form-urlencoded"
          },
          "params": {
            "client_id": {
              "consumer": "client_id"
            },
            "client_secret": {
              "consumer": "client_secret"
            },
            "refresh_token": {
              "user": "refresh_token"
            },
            "grant_type": "refresh_token"
          }
        },
        "apiRequest": {
          "query": {
            "access_token": "access_token"
          }
        }
      }
    },
    "config": {
      "debug": true,
      "outputBucket": "adsense",
      "jobs": [
        {
          "endpoint": "/adsense/v1.4/reports/",
          "dataField": "rows",
          "dataType": "rows"
        }
      ]
    }
  },
  "authorization": {
    "oauth_api": {
      "credentials": {
        "#data": "{\"access_token\": \"MY_ACCESS_TOKEN\",\"refresh_token\": \"MY_REFRESH_TOKEN\"}",
        "appKey": "MY_CLIENT_ID",
        "#appSecret": "MY_CLIENT_SECRET"
      }
    }
  }
}
{% endhighlight %}

Commit message:

fix (generic oauth20 login): Better wording for Google Example intro

extend/generic-extractor/api/authentication/oauth20-login.md, after:

---
title: Login Using OAuth 2.0 Authentication
permalink: /extend/generic-extractor/configuration/api/authentication/oauth20-login/
---

* TOC
{:toc}

The OAuth Login method is useful when you need to send a one-time **login request** to obtain temporary credentials 
for authentication of all the other API requests. A sample OAuth Login authentication looks like this:

{% highlight json %}
{
    "api": {
        ...,
        "authentication": {
            "type": "oauth20.login",
            "loginRequest": {
                "endpoint": "login",
                "method": "GET",
                "headers": {
                    "X-Login": "JohnDoe",
                    "X-Password": "TopSecret"
                }
            },
            "apiRequest": {
                "headers": {
                    "X-ApiToken": "authorization.token"
                }
            }
        }
    },
    "config": {
        ...
    }
}
{% endhighlight %}

## Configuration Parameters
The configuration parameters are identical to the [Login](/extend/generic-extractor/configuration/api/authentication/login/) method.
The difference, however, is in the [function context](/extend/generic-extractor/functions/#oauth-20-login-authentication-context).
The **login request** is assumed to require OAuth2 authorization and its response must be in JSON format (plaintext is not supported).

## Examples

### Basic Configuration
The following configuration shows how to set up an OAuth *login request*:

{% highlight json %}
{
    "parameters": {
        "api": {
            "baseUrl": "http://mock-server:80/105-oauth2-login/",
            "authentication": {
                "type": "oauth20.login",
                "loginRequest": {
                    "endpoint": "token",
                    "headers": {
                        "X-Refresh-Token": {
                            "user": "refresh_token"
                        },
                        "X-App-Key": {
                            "consumer": "client_id"
                        }
                    }
                },
                "apiRequest": {
                    "headers": {
                        "X-Access-Token": "credentials.access_token"
                    }
                }
            }
        },
        "config": {
            "outputBucket": "mock-server",
            "jobs": [
                {
                    "endpoint": "users",
                    "dataType": "users"
                }
            ]
        }
    },
    "authorization": {
        "oauth_api": {
            "credentials": {
                "#data": "{\"status\": \"ok\",\"refresh_token\": \"1234abcd5678efgh\"}",
                "appKey": "someId",
                "#appSecret": "clientSecret"
            }
        }
    }
}
{% endhighlight %}

First, an OAuth login is negotiated. The result of this authentication is a response from the API (inserted into 
the `authorization.oauth_api.credentials.#data` property): 

{% highlight json %}
{
    "status": "ok",
    "refresh_token": "1234abcd5678efgh"
}
{% endhighlight %}

This is sent to the `/token` endpoint with the following headers:

    X-Refresh-Token: 1234abcd5678efgh
    X-App-Key: someId

This API call then returns the following response:

{% highlight json %}
{
	"credentials": {
		"validUntil": "2017-10-04 12:45:09",
		"access_token": "mkoijn098uhbygv"
	}
}
{% endhighlight %}

From that, the value of the `credentials.access_token` property is taken, inserted into the `X-Access-Token` header
and sent to other API requests (`/users`).

See [example [EX105]](https://github.com/keboola/generic-extractor/tree/master/doc/examples/105-oauth2-login).


### Google API Configuration
The following example shows how to set up OAuth authentication for Google APIs. The access token is refreshed with each API call.

#### Generate access tokens 
First, visit [Google API Console](https://console.developers.google.com/apis/credentials) to obtain OAuth 2.0 credentials such as a *Client ID* and *Client secret*.

Add `https://developers.google.com/oauthplayground` to Authorized redirect URIs:
 
{: .image-popup}
![Google API Console](/extend/generic-extractor/api/authentication/oauth20-login-console.png)
 
Then, you need to generate *access* and *refresh* tokens using [Google OAuth 2.0 Playground](https://developers.google.com/oauthplayground/).

Provide your Client ID and Client secret in the settings of OAuth 2.0 Playground:

{: .image-popup}
![Google OAuth 2.0 Playground 1](/extend/generic-extractor/api/authentication/oauth20-login-playground-1.png)

Make sure the Offline Access option is checked.
Close the settings dialog.

On the left side, choose which scopes you would like to authorize and click on *Authorize APIs*.

{: .image-popup}
![Google OAuth 2.0 Playground 1](/extend/generic-extractor/api/authentication/oauth20-login-playground-2.png)

Then exchange the authorization code for tokens:

{: .image-popup}
![Google OAuth 2.0 Playground 1](/extend/generic-extractor/api/authentication/oauth20-login-playground-3.png)

#### Configuration 

Use the generated tokens in the generic extractor configuration. 
Use the JSON response with access and refresh tokens and paste it as string under `#data` key in `authorization.oauth_api.credentials`.
You have to escape doublequotes `"` in the JSON response and preferably remove newlines too, so it looks like this:

`{\"access_token\": \"MY_ACCESS_TOKEN\",\"refresh_token\": \"MY_REFRESH_TOKEN\"}`

Here is a complete configuration example for AdSense:

{% highlight json %}
{
  "parameters": {
    "api": {
      "baseUrl": "https://www.googleapis.com",
      "authentication": {
        "type": "oauth20.login",
        "loginRequest": {
          "endpoint": "/oauth2/v4/token",
          "method": "FORM",
          "headers": {
            "Content-Type": "application/x-www-form-urlencoded"
          },
          "params": {
            "client_id": {
              "consumer": "client_id"
            },
            "client_secret": {
              "consumer": "client_secret"
            },
            "refresh_token": {
              "user": "refresh_token"
            },
            "grant_type": "refresh_token"
          }
        },
        "apiRequest": {
          "query": {
            "access_token": "access_token"
          }
        }
      }
    },
    "config": {
      "debug": true,
      "outputBucket": "adsense",
      "jobs": [
        {
          "endpoint": "/adsense/v1.4/reports/",
          "dataField": "rows",
          "dataType": "rows"
        }
      ]
    }
  },
  "authorization": {
    "oauth_api": {
      "credentials": {
        "#data": "{\"access_token\": \"MY_ACCESS_TOKEN\",\"refresh_token\": \"MY_REFRESH_TOKEN\"}",
        "appKey": "MY_CLIENT_ID",
        "#appSecret": "MY_CLIENT_SECRET"
      }
    }
  }
}
{% endhighlight %}
