extend/common-interface/folders.md, before:

---
title: Data Folders Specification
permalink: /extend/common-interface/folders/
---

* TOC
{:toc}

Data folders are one of the [possible channels](/extend/common-interface/) to exchange data between your application and Keboola Connection.

## /data/ Root Folder

The `/data/` folder is the root folder for exchanging data.
Your application reads its input from the `/data/in` folder and writes its results to the `/data/out` folder.
Keboola Connection takes care of injecting required tables and files into the input folder and
picking up tables and files generated by your code.
The data folders contain actual data files (tables and files) and metadata.
For each datafile, a [manifest file](/extend/common-interface/manifest-files/) is created.
It contains metadata information (creation time, keys for tables, etc.).

To create a data folder sample, use the [create sandbox](/extend/common-interface/sandbox/) call via the
[Docker Runner API](http://docs.kebooladocker.apiary.io/#reference/sandbox).
All the resources you need in your application will be provided in a ZIP archive.

The predefined data exchange folder structure is as follows:

    /data/in/tables
    /data/in/files
    /data/out/tables
    /data/out/files

This folder structure is always available to your application. For Custom Science the current directory
will always be set to `/data/`, so the above folders can be accessed both with absolute and relative paths (e.g. `in/tables`).
For Docker Extensions, the current directory is up to you.
Do not put arbitrary files in the `/data/` folder as they will be uploaded into the user project
(or cause errors in the output mapping). For working or temporary files, use either the `/home/` or `/tmp/` folder.
The working directories have 10GB of free space.

### `/data/in/tables/` Folder

The folder contains tables defined in the input mapping; they are serialized in the CSV format:

  - string enclosure `"`
  - delimiter `,`
  - no escape character

File names are specified in the input mapping, defaulting to `{tableId}.csv` (a file name can be changed in the UI).
The table metadata is stored in a [manifest file](/extend/common-interface/manifest-files/).

### `/data/out/tables/` Folder

All output tables from your application must be placed in this folder. The destination table in
[Storage](https://help.keboola.com/storage/) is defined by the following rules (listed in order):

- If `defaultBucket` (see [below])(#default-bucket) is specified, it applies only
to the [Docker extension](/extend/docker/). The table will be uploaded to a
bucket whose name is created from the extension and configuration names.
- If the output mapping is specified (through the UI, usually) and its *source* matches the physical file name in the
`/data/out/tables` folder, the *destination* is the name of the table in Storage. An output mapping which cannot be
matched to a physical file produces an error (i.e. fulfilling the output mapping is mandatory).
- If a [manifest file](/extend/common-interface/manifest-files/) exists, it can specify the *destination* of
the table in Storage if no output mapping is present.
- If none of the above options are used, the destination is defined by the name of the file
(for example, `out.c-data.my-table.csv` will create a *my-table* table in the *out-c-data* bucket). The filename must have
at least two dots.
- If neither rule can be applied, an error is thrown.

Basically, manifests allow you to process files in the `/data/out` folder without explicitly being defined in the
output mapping. That allows for a flexible and dynamic output mapping where the structure is unknown at the beginning.
Using filenames (e.g. `out.c-data.my-table.csv`) for an output mapping is great for saving implementation time in simple or
POC applications.

**Important**: All files in the `/data/out/tables` folder will be uploaded, not only those specified in the output mapping or
manifests.

The expected CSV format:

  - string enclosure `"`
  - delimiter `,`
  - no escape character

A [manifest file](/extend/common-interface/manifest-files/) can specify a different enclosure and delimiter.


#### Default bucket
If you cannot define a bucket or want to get it automatically, request setting
the `default_bucket` flag during your [extension registration](/extend/registration/).

All tables in `/data/out/tables` will then be uploaded to a bucket identified by your
component id (created upon the extension registration) and
configuration id (created when an end-user adds a new extension configuration) and stage (`in` or `out`).
The file name (without the `.csv` suffix) will be used as the table name. The `destination` attributes
in the output mapping and file manifests will be overridden.

**Important**: The `default_bucket` flag always requires the `config` parameter when creating a job manually using
API even if the `config` configuration does not exist in Storage. This feature
is available only for [Docker extensions](/extend/docker/).

### `/data/in/files/` Folder

Files defined in the input mapping are stored in their raw form. File names are numeric and
equal to `{fileId}_{filename}` in Storage. All other information about the files is available
in the [manifest file](/extend/common-interface/manifest-files/).

### `/data/out/files/` Folder

All files in this folder are uploaded to Storage. File names are preserved and tags and other upload options
can be specified in the [manifest file](/extend/common-interface/manifest-files/).
Note that all files in the `/data/out/files` folder will be uploaded, not only those specified in the output mapping.

Commit message:

feat(extend/common-interface): sliced tables

extend/common-interface/folders.md, after:

---
title: Data Folders Specification
permalink: /extend/common-interface/folders/
---

* TOC
{:toc}

Data folders are one of the [possible channels](/extend/common-interface/) to exchange data between your application and Keboola Connection.

## /data/ Root Folder

The `/data/` folder is the root folder for exchanging data.
Your application reads its input from the `/data/in` folder and writes its results to the `/data/out` folder.
Keboola Connection takes care of injecting required tables and files into the input folder and
picking up tables and files generated by your code.
The data folders contain actual data files (tables and files) and metadata.
For each datafile, a [manifest file](/extend/common-interface/manifest-files/) is created.
It contains metadata information (creation time, keys for tables, etc.).

To create a data folder sample, use the [create sandbox](/extend/common-interface/sandbox/) call via the
[Docker Runner API](http://docs.kebooladocker.apiary.io/#reference/sandbox).
All the resources you need in your application will be provided in a ZIP archive.

The predefined data exchange folder structure is as follows:

    /data/in/tables
    /data/in/files
    /data/out/tables
    /data/out/files

This folder structure is always available to your application. For Custom Science the current directory
will always be set to `/data/`, so the above folders can be accessed both with absolute and relative paths (e.g. `in/tables`).
For Docker Extensions, the current directory is up to you.
Do not put arbitrary files in the `/data/` folder as they will be uploaded into the user project
(or cause errors in the output mapping). For working or temporary files, use either the `/home/` or `/tmp/` folder.
The working directories have 10GB of free space.

### `/data/in/tables/` Folder

The folder contains tables defined in the input mapping; they are serialized in the CSV format:

  - string enclosure `"`
  - delimiter `,`
  - no escape character

File names are specified in the input mapping, defaulting to `{tableId}.csv` (a file name can be changed in the UI).
The table metadata is stored in a [manifest file](/extend/common-interface/manifest-files/).

### `/data/out/tables/` Folder

All output tables from your application must be placed in this folder. The destination table in
[Storage](https://help.keboola.com/storage/) is defined by the following rules (listed in order):

- If `defaultBucket` (see [below])(#default-bucket) is specified, it applies only
to the [Docker extension](/extend/docker/). The table will be uploaded to a
bucket whose name is created from the extension and configuration names.
- If the output mapping is specified (through the UI, usually) and its *source* matches the physical file name in the
`/data/out/tables` folder, the *destination* is the name of the table in Storage. An output mapping which cannot be
matched to a physical file produces an error (i.e. fulfilling the output mapping is mandatory).
- If a [manifest file](/extend/common-interface/manifest-files/) exists, it can specify the *destination* of
the table in Storage if no output mapping is present.
- If none of the above options are used, the destination is defined by the name of the file
(for example, `out.c-data.my-table.csv` will create a *my-table* table in the *out-c-data* bucket). The filename must have
at least two dots.
- If neither rule can be applied, an error is thrown.

Basically, manifests allow you to process files in the `/data/out` folder without explicitly being defined in the
output mapping. That allows for a flexible and dynamic output mapping where the structure is unknown at the beginning.
Using filenames (e.g. `out.c-data.my-table.csv`) for an output mapping is great for saving implementation time in simple or
POC applications.

**Important**: All files in the `/data/out/tables` folder will be uploaded, not only those specified in the output mapping or
manifests.

The expected CSV format:

  - string enclosure `"`
  - delimiter `,`
  - no escape character

A [manifest file](/extend/common-interface/manifest-files/) can specify a different enclosure and delimiter.

#### Default bucket
If you cannot define a bucket or want to get it automatically, request setting
the `default_bucket` flag during your [extension registration](/extend/registration/).

All tables in `/data/out/tables` will then be uploaded to a bucket identified by your
component id (created upon the extension registration) and
configuration id (created when an end-user adds a new extension configuration) and stage (`in` or `out`).
The file name (without the `.csv` suffix) will be used as the table name. The `destination` attributes
in the output mapping and file manifests will be overridden.

**Important**: The `default_bucket` flag always requires the `config` parameter when creating a job manually using
API even if the `config` configuration does not exist in Storage. This feature
is available only for [Docker extensions](/extend/docker/).

#### Sliced tables

Sometimes your app will download the CSV file in chunks (slices). You do not need to manually merge them, simply put them 
in a subfolder with the same name as you would use for a single file. All files found in the subfolder are considered 
slices of the table.     

    /data/out/tables/myfile.csv/part01
    /data/out/tables/myfile.csv/part02
    /data/out/tables/myfile.csv.manifest
    
Sliced files must not contain headers and must have columns specified in [manifest file](/extend/common-interface/manifest-files/) 
or in output mapping configuration. 
Example of specifying columns in the manifest file `/data/out/tables/myfile.csv.manifest`

    {
        "source": "myfile.csv",
        "destination": "in.c-mybucket.table",
        "columns": ["col1", "col2", "col3"]
    }
    
All files from the enclosing folder are uploaded to Storage in parallel and they are imported to Storage 
in an undefined order.

### `/data/in/files/` Folder

Files defined in the input mapping are stored in their raw form. File names are numeric and
equal to `{fileId}_{filename}` in Storage. All other information about the files is available
in the [manifest file](/extend/common-interface/manifest-files/).

### `/data/out/files/` Folder

All files in this folder are uploaded to Storage. File names are preserved and tags and other upload options
can be specified in the [manifest file](/extend/common-interface/manifest-files/).
Note that all files in the `/data/out/files` folder will be uploaded, not only those specified in the output mapping.
